Title: OW2con'17 The MEASURE project   Measuring Software Engineering Alessandra Bagnato
Publication date: 2017-06-29
Playlist: OW2con 2017
Description: 
	The goal of the MEASURE (Measuring Software Engineering) project is to increase the quality and efficiency as well as reduce the costs and time-to-market of software engineering in Europe. By implementing a comprehensive set of tools for automated and continuous measurement, this project provides a toolset for future projects to properly measure their impact. More importantly, it opens a new field for innovation. The real innovation will be in the advanced analytics of the measurement data enabled by the project.
 
To reach this ambitious goal, the project will iteratively and incrementally:

1) Define better metrics and develop methods and tools for automated, precise, and unbiased measurement of software engineering activities and artefacts.
2) Develop methods and tools for analysing the big data produced by the continuous measurement to enable continuous improvement of performance.
3) Validate the developed metrics and measurement tools by integrating them into software development environments and processes of the industrial partners, and iteratively improve them based on the feedback gathered from the industry.
4) Validate the developed analysis tools by analysing the data gathered from the industrial partners and measuring the impact of the improvements suggested by the analysis tools. A practical example of a measurement-based suggestion could be pointing out an area of source code not covered by automated test suite and generating new targeted test automation scripts based on manual test cases recorded during continuous measurement.
5) Support management decision making by visualizing the results of continuous measurement at targeted level of abstraction, i.e., providing different visualization or even completely different metrics for developers and managers.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n2W94T0-H5s


