Title: "Move Slow and Try Not to Break Each Other" - Deb Nicholson (LCA 2021 Online)
Publication date: 2021-01-31
Playlist: linux.conf.au 2021
Description: 
	Deb Nicholson

https://lca2021.linux.org.au/schedule/presentation/62/

Sustainable open source starts with building sustainable communities. If our workplaces and our communities aren't sustainable then our projects won't be either. Constant chaos and breakneck speeds can only occasionally create sustainable projects, by accident. The next generation of software production will need to lean into relationship building, mission sharing and strategic planning. This talk will explore:

    How projects can get ready for the long haul
    Why resiliency starts with inter-dependency
    How slower structures enable stronger communities

Many of us are doing many of the things that help build sustainable projects already, but what if we could be more intentional? Certain structures and norms can make it hard to implement positive changes even when good ideas come up. Shared leadership and mission-driven organizations offer solid structures for sustainable communities and sustainable software development. Mutual respect and humane working conditions are how we'll create a culture that values both experience and institutional memory while encouraging new people and new ideas. Let's slow down for sustainability!

linux.conf.au is a conference about the Linux operating system, and all aspects of the thriving ecosystem of Free and Open Source Software that has grown up around it. Run since 1999, in a different Australian or New Zealand city each year, by a team of local volunteers, LCA invites more than 500 people to learn from the people who shape the future of Open Source. For more information on the conference see https://linux.conf.au/

Produced by Next Day Video Australia: https://nextdayvideo.com.au

#linux.conf.au #linux #foss #opensource

Sun Jan 24 11:40:00 2021 at Tux Theatre
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XAiTgKb9R8


