Title: Digital Sovereignty: We need devices we truly own more than ever
Publication date: 2021-01-31
Playlist: linux.conf.au 2021
Description: 
	Paul Gardner-Stephen

https://lca2021.linux.org.au/schedule/presentation/120/

The world is frankly a bit of a mess right now, and doesn't look like sorting out any time soon.  The post-WW-II / post-Cold War-I period of prosperity seems to have come to an end, and the unfortunately predictable result is geo-political turmoil, and the rising popularity of "strong" and "charismatic" leaders, not disimilarly to 100 years ago in Europe.  But in those 100 years, technology has come a long way, such that oppression by malevolent governments has become much easier to achieve, and much harder to escape, if we rely on off-the-shelf solutions.    In short, the Digital Summer may be drawing to a close, and a Digital Winter looks likely to blow in to many countries.
 
But its not all doom and gloom:  The open-source community offers hope, through its ability to create solutions that are decentralised and self-sufficient.  The Digital Summer is still with us, and so we have time to create effective solutions. We need systems that exhibit "Digital Sovereignty".  By this, we mean systems that cannot be subjugated, subverted or supplanted by hostile third-party actors, such as state-level actors.  In short, we need systems that will let people keep on communicating when the proverbial hits the oscillatory.

In this talk I will explain more of these ideas of Digital Sovereignty, the Digital Winter, and how we can work to shorten (or potentially avoid it) and how I am working to create a digitally sovereign smart-phone, as an example of a Digitally Sovereign device.

linux.conf.au is a conference about the Linux operating system, and all aspects of the thriving ecosystem of Free and Open Source Software that has grown up around it. Run since 1999, in a different Australian or New Zealand city each year, by a team of local volunteers, LCA invites more than 500 people to learn from the people who shape the future of Open Source. For more information on the conference see https://linux.conf.au/

Produced by Next Day Video Australia: https://nextdayvideo.com.au

#linux.conf.au #linux #foss #opensource

Sun Jan 24 14:25:00 2021 at Tux Theatre
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sfpfxnwJ4eI


