Title: Transparent Open Source AI Video Analytics with Panfrost
Publication date: 2021-01-31
Playlist: linux.conf.au 2021
Description: 
	Aaron Boxer, Marcus Edel

https://lca2021.linux.org.au/schedule/presentation/53/

AI-powered video analytics is one of the most challenging applications of
AI to edge devices, given the edge's power, compute, and memory limitations.
This area is currently dominated by NVidia Deep Stream, which suffers from:

1. vendor-lock-in from CUDA language and NVidia hardware

2. lack of transparency into low level tensor operations and algorithms due to
closed source drivers and libraries.

Can we give freedom of choice back to AI multimedia developers ?

Can we build a pure open source stack, running from application to ML framework
down to GPU driver, which allows complete transparency into the ML inference
workflow ?

The new Panfrost open source driver for Mali GPUs is solving this problem
on the edge by enabling a fast and efficient machine learning stack
running pure open source. Combining this with TensorFlow Lite and GStreamer,
we get a powerful open source AI stack for video analytics. And because
the stack is open from top to bottom, we get visibility into the complete
inference process, allowing us to better understand and explain how an 
analytic model makes its predictions.

The ability to explain how a model infers it's results (explainability) is an
increasingly desirable ML feature, particularly in applications that have an impact
on privacy, such as video facial recognition. Explainability allows us to build
ethical and trustworthy ML systems known to be free from bias. 
Closed source blobs and libraries interfere with explainability by hiding
crucial computations from view. 

In this talk, we will walk through the process of building an AI-driven multimedia
pipeline on top of a completely open source inference stack:
open source GPU driver, machine learning framework and machine learning models.
We will share what we have learned about optimizing these models to run fast
on resource-constrained hardware such as the Rockchip RK3399. And we will discuss
how this completely open stack is a critical component of ethical and trustworthy
video analytics.

linux.conf.au is a conference about the Linux operating system, and all aspects of the thriving ecosystem of Free and Open Source Software that has grown up around it. Run since 1999, in a different Australian or New Zealand city each year, by a team of local volunteers, LCA invites more than 500 people to learn from the people who shape the future of Open Source. For more information on the conference see https://linux.conf.au/

Produced by Next Day Video Australia: https://nextdayvideo.com.au

#linux.conf.au #linux #foss #opensource

Sun Jan 24 14:25:00 2021 at Pia Andrews Conservatory
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXZmx2aYXwQ


