Title: Amplify & React: Cloud Native Serverless - React Native - August 2019
Publication date: 2019-09-03
Playlist: React Native London
Description: 
	Presented by Ben Ellerby.

React-Native allowed for faster cross platform application development, allowing web technologies to be used and platform complexities abstracted away.

Serverless computing services, like AWS Lambda, have allowed backend development to be faster, cheaper and more scalable. Coming with Serverless architectures is a move to more cloud-native architectures, allowing developers to focus on writing code that delivers value.

AWS Amplify provides a foundation for cloud-powered web and mobile apps. Coupling React-Native with Cloud-Native Serverless stacks provides increased build speed, resilience and scale.

The talk will show hands on how Amplify can be used with React-Native, and discuss the advantages of a Serverless backend to a React-Native mobile application.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MHoAq6GFlAc


