Title: Mobile Testing in Plain English - React Native - September 2018
Publication date: 2018-10-02
Playlist: React Native London
Description: 
	Presented by Evan Gillogley.

Automated Testing should never be a pain and a non technical QA should be able to do it too. Cucumber JS, a BDD testing library, allows us to write tests in plain English. This reduces the overall cognitive complexity of writing end to end tests and allows others who aren’t familiar with a library or technology to write tests. At Velocity Black, we use Cucumber and Appium to test our React Native Android application. In this talk, I’ll walk through a React Native testing setup and discuss some of the benefits and difficulties with the technology. I’ll also describe how Cucumber been used across our stack in the last two years.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tt9CcYsDPoE


