Title: openSUSE Conference 2018 - The GNU Health : Free Software technology improving Public Healthcare aro
Publication date: 2018-05-26
Playlist: openSUSE Conference 2018
Description: 
	https://media.ccc.de/v/1702-the-gnu-health-free-software-technology-improving-public-healthcare-around-the-world

GNU Health uses Free/Libre, state-of-the-art technology to deliver Freedom and Equity in Healthcare

GNU Health is a social project that provides a community-based, Free/Libre Health and Hospital Information System deployed in many countries around the globe. GNU Health combines Social Medicine and Primary healthcare principles with state of the art advances in bioinformatics and precision medicine, delivering a valuable framework for governments and Public Health institutions, as well as for academic and research organizations.

In this presentation we will go through some of the existing and upcoming technologies behind GNU Health and their use in different scenarios. The GNU Health Federation to integrate large, heterogeneous health and research networks; The integration with OpenStreetMaps and the mobile application will be some of the topics.

Finally, we will present the GNU Health embedded  project, a joint effort with OpenSUSE, to use GNU Health in single-board devices such as the Raspberry Pi. We will go through the many benefits that this project brings to communities around the world, delivering Freedom and Equity in Healthcare, which is our ultimate goal.

GNU Health is a social project that provides a community-based, Free/Libre Health and Hospital Information System deployed in many countries around the globe. GNU Health combines Social Medicine and Primary healthcare principles with state of the art advances in bioinformatics and precision medicine, delivering a valuable framework for governments and Public Health institutions, as well as for academic and research organizations.

In this presentation we will go through some of the existing and upcoming technologies behind GNU Health and their use in different scenarios. The GNU Health Federation to integrate large, heterogeneous health and research networks; The integration with OpenStreetMaps and the mobile application will be some of the topics.

Finally, we will present the GNU Health embedded  project, a joint effort with OpenSUSE, to use GNU Health in single-board devices such as the Raspberry Pi. We will go through the many benefits that this project brings to communities around the world, delivering Freedom and Equity in Healthcare, which is our ultimate goal.

Luis Falcon
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUnd4yrvdwY


