Title: Business, Government, Science - What Opportunities Does "Open" Bring to Society?
Publication date: 2019-03-31
Playlist: FOSSASIA Summit 2019 - Open Data, Internet, Community
Description: 
	15 March 2019 11:40, Lecture Theatre

In the Panel: Mario Behling, Bunnie Huang, Dang Hong Phuc,  Shanker V Selvadurai, Dr. Graham Williams, Carsten Haitzler

2009 Obama promised a New Era of Openness. The idea was that openness prevails. Talking about the Freedom of Information Act at that time Obama said that openness "means more than simply informing the American people how decisions are made." It also means recognizing that the government doesn’t have all the answers. To that end, he directed members of his administration to "find new ways of tapping the knowledge of ordinary Americans" — scientists, educators, entrepreneurs — to find ways to solve the problems of our times. While his message as the US president was directed towards Americans, for the FOSS community, developers, designers, content creators, makers, entrepreneurs and of course companies active in our community “openness prevails” has always been true. Openness for us is not just an idea to access information, it is the basis for amazing collaboration models in the FOSS community.

At FOSSASIA developers work across time zones, countries, and continents and anyone can join development. Imagine how difficult it would be to develop our products if we had to get everyone to sign NDAs and Copyright agreements. This would cause a huge overhead, but there are different models and possibilities to how what extend openness can prevail and in this panel we would like to get insights into how open development, open communication, open tools and technologies, open knowledge and open collaboration has benefited organizations and work of our panelists.


In the second part of the panel we would like to talk about the future. What are plans of panelists for the future in their organization in regards to opening up and creating new opportunities? And in the bigger picture how will society change and open up and what opportunities and challenges lie in opening up areas of society? Panelists will answer these questions from their specific point of view as managers of a large tech corporation, successful Open Hardware makers, representatives of a community driven Open Tech company, or a manager in a computer processor company.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8NP2PMP1AFw


