Title: An Automatic Admin Interface To Plug Into Your Node.JS Application - JS Monthly - June 2019
Publication date: 2019-07-05
Playlist: JS Monthly London
Description: 
	Presented by Wojciech Krysiak

In the talk, he will tell you what the AdminBro is and in the live coding session, we will build from scratch an admin panel with:
* CRUD and filters for all database models
* beautiful dashboard
Furthermore, he will tell about interesting design problems they've solved during the development of the library.

About the speaker:

Wojciech Krysiak - CTO in Software Brothers
He graduated from 2 faculties at 2008: Electronic followed by Marketing and Management. He's been working in IT industry since then. During that time he's built dozens of products for biggest brands, such as Coca-Cola or Canal+. He has also created solutions for different international startups having hundreds of thousands of users.
Now, apart from being a CTO of Software Brothers, he focuses himself on teaching developers how to code by giving keynotes and running a jscasts.tv youtube channel.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/krysiak

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=npZUlGtCiOk


