Title: Build and Deploy a Node.js Image Resizer Service in Less Than 2 Days - JS Monthly - Nov 19
Publication date: 2019-11-24
Playlist: JS Monthly London
Description: 
	How we built and deployed a Node.js Image resizer service in less than 2 days // Ardeshir Eshghi (Funding Circle)

This talk, will take you on a journey to share with you our experience with Serverless for building a Node.js microservice.

As developers we like to be empowered by useful tools, practices and technologies. When it comes to building applications, we like to build features quickly and validate them. We often want to focus on the code rather than worrying about setting up environments and dealing with infrastructure. But some of these complexities stop us from executing our ideas as we simply think it is either impossible or very time consuming to build and deploy a new app.

This talk aims to encourage JS developers to consider using Serverless for turning their ideas into apps and be able to validate them by abstracting away the infrastructural concerns.

As with any other tool or technology, we also touch upon the dark side of Serverless and where it might not be fit for purpose.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AYM_4sDh3Lg


