Title: Next.js: The React Framework - JS Monthly - July 2019
Publication date: 2019-08-06
Playlist: JS Monthly London
Description: 
	Next.js: The React Framework // Tim Neutkens - Zeit

63% of npm users are using React. Making it the most popular JavaScript framework ever. React is being used everywhere from your favorite websites and web applications to maybe your personal website. However building fast and scaleable React applications is complex. There are many pieces that have to come together, from compilation to optimization to developer experience. Furthermore there are many strategies in which websites and applications are being built today, for example statically prerendering, server-rendering and client-side only rendering. Let's explore how Next.js solves all of these problems for you.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KC7j3DtOnYE


