Title: Open Source at SVT -  Josef Andersson and Armin Hafizovic
Publication date: 2019-04-28
Playlist: foss-north 2019
Description: 
	Up until recently, the only notable Open Source project stemming from SVT was the very successful CasparCG project, a layer-based real-time compositor used to play out professional graphics, audio and video to multiple outputs. CasparCG has been developed as an Open Source project since 2006.
Now, as SVT is looking for a broader collaboration with other public broadcasters, we have recently adopted a new Open Source policy that encourages developers to be more active in the Open Source community. Both by contributing to existing projects and by releasing in-house developed projects as Open Source.
In our talk we will present how SVT came to adopt this new Open Source policy, the challenges faced in getting it accepted within the organization, and how it has played out so far. We will also talk about how SVT encourages developers to contribute to Open Source projects and release their own code as Open Source, and why working with Open Source is essential for a public service broadcaster company. 

---

Josef is an Open Source enthusiast that has been active in many areas of the Open Source communities. As a translator, code contributor to various projects, with licenses and Open Source strategy, arranging hackathons and as a writer for tech magazines. Currently, Josef is working at SVT as a senior developer, and is also a member of their newly formed Open Source lead team that is working with implementing an Open Source mindset in the organization. 

Armin is a software engineer, Open Source enthusiast and proud dad. Currently working at SVT (his second home) as a Product Owner responsible internally for CasparCG as platform and additional solutions. Community manager for the amazing Open Source project CasparCG. Striving always to release existing or new products as Open Source and he has no plans to change his mindset in that question.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mFLE1-fb4GE


