Title: Keynote: Network Transformation: Are We Ready for 5G and Edge Clouds? - R. Gadiyar & K. Shatzkamer
Publication date: 2019-04-20
Playlist: Open Networking Summit North America 2019
Description: 
	Keynote: Network Transformation: Are We Ready for 5G and Edge Clouds? - Rajesh Gadiyar, VP, Data Center Group & CTO, Network Platforms Group, Intel & Kevin Shatzkamer, VP, Enterprise & Service Provider Strategy and Solutions, Dell EMC

We have made great progress in our NFV journey to drive a more flexible and scalable network infrastructure. We are working with our ecosystem partners to get ready for the 5G transition and deployment of 5G enabled Edge Services. With massive amounts of data generated by billions of connected devices, we have more work to do to fulfill the promise of NFV, and drive our industry towards Cloud Native solutions. In this presentation, Rajesh Gadiyar, VP & GM of Intel’s Network Architecture and Systems Engineering group, will discuss where Intel is in their network transformation journey. Along with special guest Kevin Shatzkamer from Dell EMC, Rajesh will also outline the work required to address the challenges of building Cloud Native solutions.

Speakers

Kevin Shatzkamer
Vice President, Enterprise and Service Provider Strategy and Solutions, Dell EMC
Kevin Shatzkamer is currently Vice President, Enterprise and Service Provider Strategy and Solutions at Dell EMC with responsibility for strategy and solution at the intersection points of network infrastructure technologies, cloud, data anlaytics and AI, virtualization platforms... 

Rajesh Gadiyar
Vice President, Data Center Group & Chief Technology Officer, Network Platforms Group, Intel
Technology Officer (CTO) for the Network Platforms Group (NPG) at Intel. He leads the Architecture & Systems Engineering organization within the NPG. His focus is on the delivery of scalable and efficient architectures for next generation communications platforms. He leads these efforts...
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FK80V_I02ik


