Title: Keynote: How Open Source and Open Standards are Collaboratively Accelerating Next-Gen Networks
Publication date: 2019-04-18
Playlist: Open Networking Summit North America 2019
Description: 
	Keynote: How Open Source and Open Standards are Collaboratively Accelerating Next-Gen Networks - Dan Pitt, MEF Forum; Axel Clauberg, TIP; Alla Goldner, 3GPP ETSI; Pierre Lynch, ETSI NFV ISG TST; Bill Carter, OCP; Pierre Gauthier, TM Forum; Phil Robb, LF

Standards bodies have been around almost as long as the telco industry itself. However, as open source has increasingly become a de facto approach to collaborative software development across sectors, the specific role of standards bodies vs open source communities can be complex. While standards should act as guidelines to keep technologies "open," especially for OSS developers, there's debate about what qualifies as open as well as who gets to pick what becomes a “standard.” This makes defining what “open standards” are - and how they integrate with open technologies themselves - more complicated. Representatives from both open software and open standards communities, will discuss how the two types of organizations work together to define and refine open source networking, as well as work together to change the way things operate based on lessons learned from the other party.

Speakers

Axel Clauberg
VP Strategic Portfolio Management & CTO TC Services, and Chairman of the Board, Telecom Infra Project (TIP), Deutsche Telekom
Axel Clauberg joined Deutsche Telekom AG in September 2011. Within the Group CTO/Technology Innovation team, Axel is responsible for DT's Aggregation, Transport & IP and Infrastructure Cloud architecture. Axel has more than 30 years of experience in the IT and Telecommunications industry... 

Dan Pitt
Sr. VP, MEF Forum, and President, Palo Alto Innovation Advisors
Dan Pitt has been a leading voice of the SDNFV movement since its inception. He served as executive director of ONF from its public launch in March 2011 until September 2016 and since January 2017 has been senior vice president of MEF, driving technical and ecosystem development... 

Phil Robb
Vice President - Operations, Networking & Orchestration, Linux Foundation
Phil Robb’s experience spans more than 30 years of work on the leading edge of software and networking technology, beginning with the launch of the personal computer in the early 1980s. He began working with open source in 2001 at Hewlett Packard, where he formed and led the company’s... 

William Carter
CTO, Open Compute Project (OCP)
Bill is CTO for the Open Compute Project Foundation where he is a visionary and pathfinder on this open source journey. Bill works will the entire OCP community and many other software groups, standards organizations, and industry consortiums to bring together people from around the... 

Pierre Gauthier
Chief API Architect, TM Forum

Alla Goldner
Director, Technology, Strategy & Standardization, Amdocs
Alla is a Director of Technology, Strategy and Standardization at Amdocs. She has over 20 years of varied experience in Telecommunication Standards development lead, in Technology Strategy and in System Architecture from Alcatel, Motorola, Intel, Marvell and Allot Communications... 

Pierre Lynch
Lead Technologist, Ixia
- ETSI NFV ISG TST working group chair- Lead Technologist, Ixia- In the test industry for the past 20 years- Working at Ixia for the past 11 years, always in the product management team for wireless test products- Most of my experience has been with mobility testing: GSM, UMTS, LTE...
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L3sR0ZZojQI


