Title: LTD20-205 System Device Tree Project
Publication date: 2020-04-01
Playlist: Linaro Tech Days 2020
Description: 
	Description: 
Today's heterogeneous SoCs are very hard to configure. Issues such as which cores, memory and devices belong to which operating systems, hypervisors and firmware is done in an ad-hoc, error prone way. Even harder is to set up shared resources, e.g. shared pages for virtio.

System Device Trees will change all that by extending today's device trees, used by Linux, Xen, U-Boot, etc. to describe the full system and also include configuration information on what belongs where. This will enable any operating environment, including open source and proprietary Real-Time Operating Systems to be configured form one true source. System Device Trees are part of the Linaro Device Tree Evolution Project.

This talk will discuss the progress that has been made up to date, both in terms of specification as well as tooling. The open source Lopper tool will be demonstrated with different backends to show how to "prune" the System Device Tree to a traditional Device Tree as well as generating "#define" information usable for an RTOS.

Session Speakers
Stefano Stabellini
Principal Engineer (Xilinx)

Stefano Stabellini serves as system software architect and virtualization lead at Xilinx, the world\'s largest supplier of FPGA solutions. Previously, at Aporeto, he created a virtualization-based security solution for containers and authored several security articles. As Senior Principal Software Engineer in Citrix, he led a small group of passionate engineers working on Open Source projects. Stefano has been involved in Xen development since 2007. He created libxenlight in November 2009 and started the Xen port to ARM with virtualization extensions in 2011. Today he is a Xen Project committer, and he maintains Xen on ARM and Xen support in Linux and QEMU.
Bruce Ashfield
Principal System Software Engineer (Xilinx)

Bruce has worked in embedded software and linux for 20 years and has a variety of technical areas of interest. Ranging from kernel to virtualization/containers and edge system design.
Tomas Evensen
CTO Embedded SW - Xilinx

Tomas Evensen is Chief Technology Officer, Embedded Software at Xilinx. In this role he is responsible for the embedded software strategy for Xilinx All Programmable SoCs. Prior to joining Xilinx, Evensen was Chief Technology Officer at Wind River for 7 years, as well as GM for the Wind River Tools Division and VP of Engineering for the VxWorks operating system. Before that he was the creator of the Diab Data C/C++ compilers. Evensen received his MSEE at the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, Sweden.



You view this sessions presentation here:
https://connect.linaro.org/resources/ltd20/ltd20-205/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2o-B21unV9M


