Title: LTD20-200K Keynote: Trusted Firmware – Build Security Collaboratively
Publication date: 2020-04-01
Playlist: Linaro Tech Days 2020
Description: 
	Description: 
In a world of a trillion connected devices, Firmware security must be seen as a shared responsibility across different market segments, from Cloud to IoT. Trusted Firmware is an open governance community project, providing a collaborative platform for everyone in the ecosystem to work together on open source reference implementations of Secure world Software & Firmware on the Arm architecture, for both resource-constrained Microcontrollers and powerful Application Processors.
In this talk Matteo and Shebu will present the latest exciting news from the project, showing the constantly increased community engagement and discussing both recent updates and forward-looking plans for Trusted Firmware, as the comprehensive reference implementation for secure world software and secure services on Arm systems.

Session Speakers
Matteo Carlini
Director, Software Technology Management (Arm)

Matteo is Director of Software Technology Management at Arm and serves as Chairman of the Board for Trusted Firmware. 



He drives Arm's community effort into various open source projects, focusing on security architectures, firmware & kernel interfaces, platform security requirements and ecosystem enablement. In a previous life, he spent many years managing and working on embedded software developments for networking and automotive devices across various companies, where firmware meant BSPs and lot of proprietary headache.

Shebu Varghese Kuriakose
Senior Software Technology Manager (Arm Ltd.)
Shebu is the Product Manager of Trusted Firmware-M (Open Source Reference Implementation of Platform Security Architecture) and the co-chair of the Open Governance community project Trustedfirmware.org. 

Shebu represents Arm in the Linaro IoT and Embedded (LITE) Group. As part of Arm’s Open Source Software group, Shebu has been involved in various Open Source projects that Arm is part of. Prior to joining Arm, Shebu worked in Samsung and Cambridge Silicon Radio
 (now Qualcomm).


You can find this sessions resources on:
https://connect.linaro.org/resources/ltd20/ltd20-200k/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=biVXRxlphOE


