Title: LTD20-104 Make life easier for Big Data users on ARM - Our efforts and future plans
Publication date: 2020-03-25
Playlist: Linaro Tech Days 2020
Description: 
	Description:
Currently, there are more and more ARM based datacenter hardware on the market, and their performance has been continuously improving. Thus more and more users and customers starting to consider using these datacenter hardware for their business. Big data is one of the most important area.

On the contrary, the open source ecosystem for big data on ARM is not that perfect, most of the software in the big data ecosystem did not care too much about running on ARM previously, they did not officially tested their codes on ARM, and there are a lot of unsolved problems. In order to make that software able to run on ARM, one have to search and read tons of articles to do a lot of patches and build numbers of dependencies by their own. And once the upstream changes or upgrades, there might be new problems since it does not test on ARM in upstream. All these made users scared to use ARM for their business.

In order to change this situation and make the big data opensource ecosystem more friendly to the ARM platform and its users, our team started by proposing adding ARM CI to those opensource projects. By doing this, the projects will be fully tested on ARM and all future changes will also be tested on ARM. And we fixed a lot of problems directly in upstream, which benefits all users. And then, we start to perform performance comparison tests between ARM and X86, to give users an overview of the status. And there are also large numbers of TODOs in the future.

In this session, you can learn the current status about ARM CI of Big Data ecosystem projects like Hadoop, Spark, Hbase, Flink, Storm, Kudu, Impala etc. and our efforts on fixing ARM related problems. We will also introduce our future plans.

Session Speakers



bo zhaobo  - Huawei - China
An openlab ARM tester for extending the ARM ecosystecm



Sheng Liu - Huawei Senior Software Engineer

I am working in Huawei and devoting to Open source projects contribution. Currently I am focus on promoting some Projects in Big data area, e.g. Hadoop, Hive to support ARM platform.



Zhenyu Zheng - Senior Software Engineer (Huawei Technology)

Senior Software Engineer from OpenSource Ecosystem Dept. Huawei Technology 



You can find the presentation for this session on connect.linaro.org:
https://connect.linaro.org/resources/ltd20/ltd20-104/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=crcOzsbVsjg


