Title: Apache Spark Accelerated Deep Learning Inference for Large Scale Satellite Image Analytics
Publication date: 2020-10-22
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Geospatial
Description: 
	Apache Spark Accelerated Deep Learning Inference for Large Scale Satellite Image Analytics
Dalton Lunga, PhD

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

With volumes of acquired remotely sensed imagery growing at an exponential rate, there is an ever-increasing burden of research and development challenges associated with processing this data at scale. In particular, the application of object detection models across large geographic areas predominantly faces three obstacles: (1) a lack of workflows for gathering representative training data and mitigating data bias, (2) the inability of current machine learning algorithms to generalize across diverse sensor and geographic conditions, and (3) the deployment and reuse of hundreds of unique models at scale. By considering the above challenges in a joint manner, we formulate and present an efficient, geographically agnostic framework for remote sensing imagery analysis at a global scale. The framework addresses the problem of bias-free data selection by mapping observed satellite images to a novel metric space rooted in the manifold geometry of the data itself, forming natural partitions of similar data. Using these partitions to seed training, the framework enables simpler, localized models to be developed; alleviating the challenge of generalization seen by more complex models for larger geographic extents. In an agile manner the framework further exploits the inherent parallelism for dataflow, and harnesses Apache Spark to implement distributed inference and training strategies which are seen to favorably scale. We discuss the challenges and merits of using Spark with current deep learning frameworks, providing insight into solutions developed for overall workflow harmonization. As a test case study, with no training data gathered for any entire country, we deploy the framework to detect buildings and roads, over areas that spans thousands of square kilometers and covered by 26TB of satellite image data. Drawing understanding from the results of this study, we finally present future directions which this exciting research may take.

Dalton is currently a research scientist in machine learning driven geospatial image analytics at ORNL. In this role he deploys machine learning and computer vision techniques in high performance computing environments, focusing on creating imagery-based data layers of interest to various societal problems e.g. enable accurate population distribution estimates and damage mapping for disaster management needs. He currently conducts research and development in machine learning techniques and advanced workflows for handling large volumes of geospatial data. Prior to ORNL, Dalton worked as machine learning research scientist at the council for scientific and industrial research in South Africa on a variety of projects. He received his PhD in electrical and computer engineering from Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, US.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nq0ia65CJ6c


