Title: AutoRetrain: automated deep learning model training on imagery using Apache Airflow and Apache Nifi
Publication date: 2020-10-22
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Geospatial
Description: 
	AutoRetrain: automated deep learning model training on imagery using Apache Airflow and Apache Nifi.-
Carlos Caceres

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

The ability to automate model training is a complex subject that has recently received much attention in the deep learning community. Multiple workflow management systems have also begun gaining traction, and are necessary in order to orchestrate the necessary steps to make auto-retraining feasible. This work tackles model automation by making use of two such technologies: Apache Airflow and Apache Nifi. Since both fields of automatic model training and the overarching field of AutoML are broad and complex, this work seeks to show the utility of AutoML approaches on object detection in overhead imagery by a simple approach: integrating cycles of model retraining as data becomes available over time. Not only does this approach match the reality of data acquisition, it also seeks to leverage information as it becomes available and in so doing, reduces the time lag from acquiring new data to extracting useful intelligence. This work tackles a few problems practitioners often encounter when involved in long-term, deep learning projects. Questions include: 1). when to start a new round of training, 2). how to minimize the time complexity of training a deep learning network, and 3). how to tackle the problem of selection bias, which occurs when training sets contain uneven probability across classes. The third and most complex question originates from the uneven distribution that may be present in the data. This bias occurs for a variety of reasons, low sampling opportunities chief among them. Selection bias and other forms of dataset bias are only a part of the learning problem as learning through back propagation also allows the model to ignore uncertainty in its predictions. Instead, certain scenarios have been helped by other techniques, such as curriculum learning, active-bias learning, and hard example mining that focus training on easy, uncertain, and hard examples respectively. Retraining as described consists of training cycles, where each cycle contains the whole data science pipeline – from data gathering, data preparation, to training, and scoring. In order to automate this process for a production system, it is first necessary to establish a reliable method to orchestrate the execution of individual pieces of the pipeline. To this end, this work experimented with Apache Nifi and Apache Airflow, two popular data flow management tools. By combining them with a tracking tool such as Mlflow, both Apache Nifi and Apache Airflow become extremely useful in managing retraining flows in a way that allows for reliable reproducibility.

Carlos Caceres:
MAXAR
Cloud Computing for Gov & Milsatcom Applications from satellite data.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C_9lAPFpYh4


