Title: Massively Scalable Real-time Geospatial Anomaly Detection with Apache Kafka and Cassandra
Publication date: 2020-10-22
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Geospatial
Description: 
	Massively Scalable Real-time Geospatial Anomaly Detection with Apache Kafka and Cassandra
Paul Brebner

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

This presentation will explore how we added location data to a scalable real-time anomaly detection application, built around Apache Kafka, and Cassandra. Kafka and Cassandra are designed for time-series data, however, it’s not so obvious how they can efficiently process spatiotemporal data (space and time). In order to find location-specific anomalies, we need ways to represent locations, to index locations, and to query locations. We explore alternative geospatial representations including: Latitude/Longitude points, Bounding Boxes, Geohashes, and go vertical with 3D representations, including 3D Geohashes. For each representation we also explore possible Cassandra implementations including: Clustering columns, Secondary indexes, Denormalized tables, and the Cassandra Lucene Index Plugin. To conclude we measure and compare the query throughput of some of the solutions, and summarise the results in terms of accuracy vs. performance to answer the question “Which geospatial data representation and Cassandra implementation is best?”

Since learning to program on a VAX 11/780, Paul has extensive R&D and consulting experience in distributed systems, technology innovation, software architecture and engineering, software performance and scalability, grid and cloud computing, and data analytics and machine learning. Paul is the Technology Evangelist at Instaclustr. He’s been learning new scalable technologies, solving realistic problems and building applications, and blogging about Apache Cassandra, Spark, Zeppelin, Kafka, and Elasticsearch. Paul has worked at UNSW, several tech start-ups, CSIRO, UCL (London, UK), & NICTA. Paul has helped solve significant software architecture and performance problems for clients including Defence and NBN Co. Paul has an MSc in Machine Learning and a BSc (Computer Science and Philosophy).
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ETkz_1m59Wc


