Title: DrupalCon Amsterdam 2014: Life in the Fast Lane - Achieving Sustainable Growth
Publication date: 2014-09-30
Playlist: DrupalCon Amsterdam - September 2014
Description: 
	Speakers: pdjohnsonjwalpoleweskutimdeesonjannekalliola
Help make this panel conversation relevant to you

Please contribute your question(s) for the panelists using our web form.

About this session

Do you run a Drupal business? Have you ever suffered growing pains as you scale to meet with demand? Ever wished you could be a fly on the wall at a thriving larger agency? If so this session is just the thing for you!

Join business leaders from 4 of the world's most accomplished Drupal businesses, lifting the hood on their organisations, revealing their winning formulae. Each panellist will be quizzed as to how they have primed their business to achieve sustainable growth, how they have triumphed in highly competitive markets.

Operating across multiple continents in various sectors you can be assured this panel conversation, chaired by Janne Kalliola, will provide relevant and valuable takeaways. With such diverse backgrounds, expect healthy debate and contrasting thought provoking opinions.

With the fast approaching release of Drupal 8 there’s never been a better time to prepare your business for a new golden age.

Chair person: Janne Kalliola - Exove

Panelists

Vesa Palmu - Wunderkraut
Tim Deeson - Deeson Online
Paul Johnson - CTI Digital
Jeff Walpole - Phase2
Key topics will include: 

How do you differentiate your business in the market?
Are you sure you WANT to grow a large organisation?
To service larger clients what specialisms have you needed to deliver in house?
How does your business plan to sustain growth? i.e VC, Acquisition, JV
What is the most challenging aspect of delivering larger projects?
How do you mitigate risk?
What is the biggest challenge your business foresees?
How should large Drupal shops contribute to the sustainability of the project?
Business Track BoF: Growing Drupal Businesses: A follow up discussion to this and Leaping the Hurdles to Growing your Drupal agency has been scheduled on Tuesday from 15:45-16:45 in G111 · Adyax.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sXaqp-hT2U0


