Title: DrupalCon Vienna 2017: Creating business value with Drupal
Publication date: 2017-09-26
Playlist: DrupalCon Vienna - Sept 2017
Description: 
	On the bottom line business decisions are always based on value, where value is the benefit in relationship to the cost.

Drupal 8 has a number of strong value propositions for enterprise customers:

Open Source
Configuration management
Distributions
Multisite capabilities
Strong and flexible API
Built on standards 
Sourcecode management with composer
Extensible features (commerce, media, headless, etc.)
In this session I will show how we position Drupal 8 as a value creating platform towards our enterprise customers.

Standardizing all applications to Drupal allows on the one hand to achieve significant value creation due to cost reduction in the areas of security auditing, quality assurance, deployment, hosting, and servicing. On the other hand new investments can largely be spent on innovation and improvement. 

The information in this session will be backed by real case studies from our clients.

Target audience

C-Level, sales reps, account- and project managers of software companies
Managers and decision makers at enterprises that are either already using Drupal or considering using Drupal.
About the speaker

Baddý Sonja is the CEO and co-founder of 1xINTERNET, one of the largest Drupal agencies in Germany. 1xINTERNET was founded in 2011 and has 18 employees.

Baddy graduated with B.Sc. in Computer Science from the University of Reykjavik and completed her M.Sc. in Engineering Management from the Technical University in Vienna (TU-Vienna). After graduating in 2008 Baddy has been lecturing Agile and Management at TU-Vienna. She is also an European champion in Robotic Soccer.

Baddý has been very active in the Drupal community and has organised Drupal camps both in Iceland and Frankfurt. She also organised the Splash Awards in Germany that were held for the first time in March 2017. Baddý is also a founding member of Drupal Iceland as well as of the to-be-founded German Business Drupal Association.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vu5D7fqrTN8


