Title: Keynote Panel: Straight Talk from Technology Leaders on Spinnaker & the SDLC
Publication date: 2021-01-12
Playlist: Spinnaker Summit 2020
Description: 
	Doing DevOps at scale has inherent challenges. Every organization will face those challenges with different contexts and constraints. This fun and casual fireside Q&A panel with Armory CTO Isaac Mosquera will dig into the experiences and observations of technology leaders from innovative companies. Get to know these leaders, and find out about the biggest challenges they have faced in optimizing SDLCs, and how they strategize to address them with Spinnaker and beyond. Live audience Q&A will give attendees the opportunity to be part of the conversation.

Featuring: 
Isaac Mosquera, Armory CTO
Isaac is a co-founder and CTO of Armory. At Armory, he has been leading engineering and product teams engaged in the Spinnaker community since it was open sourced by Netflix & Google. He was recently elected to both the Spinnaker Steering Committee and the Continuous Delivery Foundation's Technical Oversight Committee. Before Armory, Isaac was SVP Engineering at ShareThis, where his team built a CI/CD platform that increased deployment velocity by 600x. Before that, he served as CTO at two startups with exits. He enjoys mountain biking, snowboarding, and eating copious amounts of gummy bears.

Bridget Cowie, Xero Product Owner
Bridget is the Product Owner for Xero’s Build & Deployment products within their PaaS Group. With her background in infrastructure engineering, she’s passionate about making the experience of building & deploying software as fast & easy as possible.

Micheal Benedict, Pinterest Head of Engineering Productivity
Engineering leader, Infrastructure. Building abstractions to simplify developer experience atop the public cloud. Focus on developer platforms — SCM, Build Tools, Workload Lifecycle Management, Container Orchestration, Observability & Monitoring, Data Processing Infrastructure & Query Systems and Infrastructure Governance (Metering & Chargeback, Capacity Planning).

Otieno Ododa, Patreon Head of Infrastructure

Joan Martinez, Glovo Engineering Manager, Infrastructure
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wG8o_kdmSE8


