Title: Flock 2018 - Fedora in Google Summer of Code and Outreachy - Project Showcase
Publication date: 2018-09-08
Playlist: Flock 2018
Description: 
	Friday, August 10, 2018 
11:20am - 12:10pm
@Meissed + Radebeul

Talk: Fedora in Google Summer of Code and Outreachy - Project Showcase
Presenters: Laura Abbott, Jona Azizaj, Brian Exelbierd, Dusty Mabe, Bee Padalkar, Abhishek Sharma, ...

Description: Google Summer of Code(GSoC) is a program aiming to bring more student developers into open source software development. It enables students to spend their summer break working with open source organizations on projects proposed by participating organizations and supported by mentors. Outreachy (previously, Outreach program for women) provides three-month internships in free and open source organizations for people from groups traditionally underrepresented in tech.

The Fedora Project has participated in Google Summer of Code (GSoC) as a mentoring organization for over a decade now and has been participated in Outreachy since its' early rounds. This session will be an opportunity to showcase projects of current and former GSoC and Outreachy interns in Fedora to the community. This session will cover

What is Google summer of Code(GSoC) and Outreachy? Information about the programs including timeline, similarities and key differences.

GSoC, Outreachy and Fedora

Why should you become a GSoC or Outreachy mentor?

Steps to apply to become a GSoC or Outreachy mentor - Things to keep in mind and important tips from current and past mentors and/or Fedora coordinators for the program

Project showcase from current and former GSoC and Outreachy interns.

We are working on compiling a list of interns who can showcase their projects. We will reach out to everyone soon. In the meantime, if you are interested to showcase your GSoC or Outreachy project or have been a mentor for either of the programs in the past and want to talk about your experience or want to help us organize this session, please reach out to us: bee2502@fedoraproject.org
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B_kf68c3qog


