Title: Open Banking: a Revolutionary Democratizing Force for Financial Services Innovation
Publication date: 2020-10-17
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Fineract
Description: 
	Open Banking: a Revolutionary Democratizing Force for Financial Services Innovation
Matt Millar, Ali Hussein Kassim, Victor Romero

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

This panel consisting of technologists and practitioners from the Fineract ecosystem will look at how Open Banking is and will dramatically transform how financial services are delivered. The panel will explore how Open Banking has already impacted sectors like the UK and Europe, the revolutionary potential it will have for the underbanked in emerging markets, the ongoing status and roadmap of Open Banking APIs being implemented on top of Fineract, as well trends and emerging API standards that will continue to unlock new innovation democratizing financial services.

Matt Millar:
Matt is a serial entrepreneur with experience in delivering mass consumer mobile solutions. At Updraft he is co-founder and CTO, Updraft helps get consumers out of debt, and achieve their financial goals. Prior to updraft Matt built the online booking platform for Slick, a startup founded by Brent Hoberman’s Founder’s Factory and founded and built Tellybug, which pioneered app voting for TV shows including X Factor, Britain’s Got Talent, The Voice on primetime broadcasters including BBC, ITV, and broadcasters across Germany, Denmark, Poland, Sweden, Singapore, Thailand, Australia and more. A pioneer in the mobile industry Matt was building consumer applications on mobile before App Stores existed, delivering applications embedded in mobile phones produced by Nokia, Samsung, Ericsson and more.

Ali Hussein Kassim:
Ali is the CEO of Kipochi, a Pan-African Fintech company that enables the financial ecosystem to utilize digital technologies towards enhancing efficiency, bring innovative financial solutions to the unbanked across the continent and create awareness towards the transformative nature of Financial Technologies. Ali is a Co-Founder and Partner at Demo Ventures. DEMO Ventures is an early stage, smart capital fund, currently raising its inaugural fund, focused on digital innovation and digital transformation in selected sectors in Africa. DEMO leverages its proprietary Pan African deal to catalyze investment into early stage, high growth potential startups in Africa. Ali is a Global Board Advisor at the Mifos Initiative. As a true visionary in the fintech world, he uses his expertise and critical insight into the sector to help shape the ongoing product and community development strategy and advance sustainability endeavors for the Mifos Initiative.

Victor Romero:
Victor is a professional with more than 20 years of experience in the Information Technology sector, throughout which he has consolidated knowledge and forged technical and administrative skills focused on providing solutions, meeting national and international quality standards, focused mainly on the Financial sector. He has participated in Development, Operations, Management and Control areas, the experience in these areas gives him a broad vision to take strategic decisions that enhance the social and business objectives promoted by technology demanded by financial institutions, always acting with a high sense of professional ethical values. He co-founder of Fintecheando where we have been working with the Mifos Initiative using Fineract 1.x/CN for providing digital solutions for the Mexican financial institution which serve the population at an enterprise level.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CWNdW72aJ0M


