Title: The present of Fineract - Panel discussion
Publication date: 2020-10-17
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Fineract
Description: 
	The present of Fineract - Panel discussion
Javier Borkenztain, Michael Vorburger, Ed Cable, James Dailey

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

In this panel, we will discuss how the community is working, what are the current challenges and what are we seeing from our unique perspectives.

Javier Borkenztain:
Javier is a serial entrepreneur with more than twenty years of experience working with technology in several industries and more than a decade in the financial industry. He is co-Founder and CEO of Fiter. Javier was involved with the Apache Fineract and Mifos X communities since 2014, and he had several roles within The Mifos Initiative. He was the Founder and CEO of the first Latin American startup granted with a banking grade license from a Central Bank. Javier holds a title of Industrial and Mechanical Engineer from the Universidad de la República del Uruguay, MBA from the IEEM, Universidad de Montevideo.

Michael Vorburger:
Father. EPFL alumni. Working on The Supercomputer for advertisement & more (at G); prev. at @RedHat. Also ScratchDay.ch, Fineract.dev

Ed Cable:
Pioneer in catalyzing community growth and financial inclusion innovation as the leader of the global open source Mifos community for the past decade. Perched at the compelling intersection of financial inclusion and open source technology, I'm well-versed in fintech from multiple dimensions:

James Dailey:
James Dailey is the Board Chair and founder of Mifos, the open source community that created and then contributed the fineract code base. He works at the intersection of financial inclusion and energy inclusion in the global south. A serial entrepreneur, James has created several social ventures and open source projects, aimed at solving big hairy problems. He sits on the fineract PMC and helps with identifying gaps and strategies.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LV93GMcQ-8g


