Title: 0 to 100 Real Quick - Making your First Days Count - Nathaniel Okenwa
Publication date: 2020-02-16
Playlist: You Got This! 2020 Conference
Description: 
	Hooray! You’ve landed your first full-time tech job, but what comes next? The first few months can be daunting and it is easy to feel like you don’t belong. In this talk, we look at some useful strategies to help you navigate your rookie year.

Last year, I started my first full-time role as a Developer Evangelist. Speaking with fellow newbies, I realised how similar our experiences were. Over the past 12 months, I have collected useful learnings to guide others through this early phase of their careers. Whether you’re new in tech and looking for your first role, a new hire just starting or a manager onboarding juniors, this talk will provide you with a checklist of actionable practices to ace your first year.

Nathaniel is a Developer Evangelist at Twilio working to create magical moments for developers with their products. He is a die hard fan of JavaScript, sports, superheroes and mixed martial arts. His life goals are to have Batman's brains, Deadpool's humour, T'Challa's fashion sense, Killmonger's Wokeness, and Thanos' determination! He serves the Javascript community in the UK and the rest of Europe.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9pJVPlcE_JA


