Title: Company Culture, Performance Reviews & You - Ruth Lee
Publication date: 2020-02-16
Playlist: You Got This! 2020 Conference
Description: 
	"Culture fit". The dreaded phrase we all love to hear in our rejection letters, but culture's more than just being a cis white dude. In this talk I'll discuss engineering culture, particularly around approaches to risk and maturity of processes in companies of different sizes. This talk is aimed at helping junior engineers understand how this culture impacts performance reviews and how to adapt to flourish in different company environments.

You'll get the low down on engineering team culture from a business perspective. We'll cover what culture is (approach to risk) and isn’t (free snacks). Company and team culture archetypes (startup vs. mature) and suggest which suit different career and comfort levels.

We'll also look at how company culture impacts your career especially the effect on performance reviews and feedback. How you should account for this in your own self assessment, and strategies for assessing stated versus actual culture.

Ruth is an Engineering Manager for the Site Reliability Team at Splunk. She's been a Linux engineer for almost a decade during which time she's developed an unhealthy obsession with the topic of time in computing. Outside of work you can find her on a mountain, the sea, or at the gym powerlifting.
_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pn8xpcFs4iA


