Title: How to find your perfect mentor, when you don’t know how - Amina Adewusi
Publication date: 2020-02-16
Playlist: You Got This! 2020 Conference
Description: 
	Achieving your goals, whether to teach yourself how to code, get your first developer job or level up in your career are very likely to require support from a mentor.

Identifying and connecting with good mentors ensures that the time you spend trying to achieve your goals is both efficient and effective. Mentors can open doors to more knowledge, job opportunities and support you mentally and emotionally.

In this talk, we will cover exactly what you should say when reaching out to someone you don’t know, whether in-person or online. We will explore how to interact with your mentor to understand and meet their needs, so that you can create a sustainable symbiotic relationship.

Amina is an Associate Software Engineer at the Guardian News & Media in London. She taught herself how to code whilst looking after a young baby and juggling a full-time job. She is passionate about encouraging under-represented groups into tech and is proof that it’s possible to become an engineer without spending a penny. She is an international speaker who seeks to represent the voice of new developers in the software engineering industry.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=euzvwIe1FFs


