Title: It's not your job to love your job - Keziyah Lewis
Publication date: 2020-02-16
Playlist: You Got This! 2020 Conference
Description: 
	Tech workers are under enormous pressure to put our jobs above anything else in our lives. Startup culture encourages self sacrifice and overwork in order to complete the company’s mission. As early career devs, it’s easy to feel that we should be grateful to have a job in this industry, especially when you have a decent salary and perks, and your boss is constantly reminding you that you’re part of a “family” that is “changing the world”.

Loving or appreciating your job isn’t a problem on its own. But you’re not obligated to do it. In fact, I’d argue that the pressure to love your job can be dangerous. Using examples from my personal experience and from the tech industry as a whole, I’ll talk about how unconditional job love is used to exploit or mistreat tech workers.

You’ll leave this talk with a better understanding of techniques employers use to mask workplace issues, how to view your workplace more critically, how to spot cultural red flags, and how to advocate for yourself and your colleagues.

Keziyah Lewis is a Black and queer web developer, designer, and digital nomad. She curates Juniors in Tech, a newsletter for early career technologists. Keziyah is passionate about eliminating barriers to entering tech, making the industry more diverse and just, and making tech companies better places to work.
_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t_cAW0Ubnyg


