Title: Learning to Invest in Your Future - Matthew Gilliard
Publication date: 2020-02-16
Playlist: You Got This! 2020 Conference
Description: 
	When change is the only constant, learning is the only future-proof skill. But deadlines, rules and the pressure to ship working code can stop us from learning effectively. To do that we need to give ourselves permission to switch mindset; to try new things, to have fun and to embrace our curiosity.

In this talk, using examples from the pioneers of programming education in the 1960s through to the present day, Matthew will show some effective techniques for developing new programming skills. You’ll see how learning how to learn can benefit you through your whole career, and how valuable it can be to share what you’ve learned with others. As well as making your programming more fun and more interesting, you’ll find out how cultivating your learning can benefit your employer and set you up for success.

Matthew is a Developer Evangelist for Twilio, a company that is helping developers to fuel the future of communication with APIs. He loves spending time with the programming community at conferences, meetups and hackathons, helping developers to discover their superpowers.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zn7ZdhxRy3Y


