Title: Level Up: Developing Developers - Melinda Seckington
Publication date: 2020-02-16
Playlist: You Got This! 2020 Conference
Description: 
	As video games have become more and more complex, game designers put way more time into creating environments where players are engaged and willing to put the time and effort into learning and mastering these skills.

We can learn a lot from how games are designed to make the internal developer experiences better, since it’s a similar type of environment we want to create: an environment where people can learn and master skills. We should make it easier for developers to understand what options are available to them, allow them to make time for learning and provide structures and processes for them to develop the skills that they want and need for future roles.

This talk will look at how you can help level up your team by using competencies and career development frameworks, what types of processes you can introduce to support personal development and how developers should be using opportunities like these to get a better understanding of what skills they should focus on.

Melinda Seckington is a Technical Manager at FutureLearn, the social learning platform offering free and paid-for online courses and degrees from leading universities and organisations worldwide. She speaks at international technology conferences and writes for MissGeeky, a blog about all things geeky and girly. When she’s not busy with events or blogging, you can find Melinda curled up on her couch with a good book or video game.
_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XS9MAfj0hWQ


