Title: Never Stop Stopping: Real Talk About When to Walk Away - Amy Dickens
Publication date: 2020-02-16
Playlist: You Got This! 2020 Conference
Description: 
	When you start your first job there is a ton of learning to be done, not just about the job itself but the office space & social norms between your colleagues. It can be exciting, challenging & at times overwhelming.

But what happens if the excitement wears off all too quickly & suddenly you’re not sure you want the job any longer?

In this talk we will take an honest look at what happens when your new job becomes your worst job. Including tools to help you recognize the signs of this happening & what you can do to establish your own boundaries & rules about when to walk away.

Amy is a Developer Community Manager for Pusher - a company that helps developers build realtime features into their projects through hosted APIs. Amy’s career has traversed the worlds of music, audio and tech - finally finding their jam in community management. Having worked many jobs (over 15 to date) Amy is well versed in knowing when it is time to look for something new - a feeling that is familiar for many of us and that they will cover in their (exclusive to You Got This) talk.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4OgJiphPJlo


