Title: Automated Emergency Paramedical Response System by Mashrin Srivastava, Saumya Suvarna
Publication date: 2019-03-27
Playlist: FOSSASIA Summit 2019 - Artificial Intelligence
Description: 
	15 March 2019 17:55, Event Hall 2-1

Disruptive technologies are game changers especially in medical emergencies, where a few minutes can be the difference between life and death. With blockchain technology democratizing information distribution, Edge AI bringing intelligence to the end device, chatbots powered by enormous amounts of trained data mimicking human beings and machine learning and deep learning making accurate predictions, it has become possible to ensure the best medical care is provided to every individual irrespective of their place of residence. With all these technologies being open sourced, it is easy to focus on how to improve the efficiency, enhance the security and refine the accuracy while reducing the cost.

Automated Emergency Paramedical Response System leverages various open source technologies to provide medical supplies using aerial distribution by drones. It is a multi-functional end to end semi-autonomous system which operates differently in urban and rural areas based on their individual requirements. In semi-urban and rural areas, there is a need to provide access to specialised doctors and medical supplies as these are unavailable in their community hospitals. AERPS  leverages medical image processing and deep learning using OpenCV and TensorFlow to accurately predict the presence of disease like ischemic strokes and based on the diagnosis, allows the community hospital to order for medical supplies. The medical supplies are delivered using a drone enhanced with edge AI to run intelligent algorithms enabling it to ensure that the medicines are only delivered to authorised people and providing accurate obstacle avoidance thus making delivery in hard to reach places easier. In congested urban areas, an interactive chatbot with the ability to predict ailments based on patient symptoms informs the medical personnel who approves the delivery of medicines thus providing quick delivery of medical supplies where traffic is a major roadblock in providing medical assistance. Confidentiality of patient records has been achieved by using decentralised blockchain-based distributed computing to ensure security for the users without involving third-party institutions.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4PifhNTo1uc


