Title: How we Kotlinised the Java Persistence API - Kotlin London - November 2019
Publication date: 2019-11-24
Playlist: Kotlin London
Description: 
	How we Kotlinised the Java Persistence API
Kotlin is great on the server: you get a modern, more usable language, with access to 25 years of tried and tested libraries that solve a lot of common engineering problems. The downside is that most of those libraries were written with Java development in mind, so using them from Kotlin can feel weirder, and less comfortable than an API written with Kotlin in mind.
The Java Persistence API, made famous by Hibernate, is one such library: What object type will this query return? When is it safe to persist objects? How can you tell if you’re in a transaction? These are all questions that the JPA makes really hard to answer, but with a bit of work, can become really easy to figure out in Kotlin.
In this talk, we’ll look at the Java Persistence API, and how we’ve used Kotlin’s features to make it feel like a natural Kotlin tool. You’ll come away from this talk with ideas of how to make your favourite Java libraries work better with Kotlin.

Chris is an Australian developer, speaker, and serial community conference organiser. He serves as a director of the Python Software Foundation, and is co-organiser of the acclaimed North Bay Python conference, a boutique one-track conference run in a live music venue in Petaluma, California.
By day, Christopher works as a Senior Software Engineer at AlphaSights, using Kotlin to build technology that helps connect investors, consultants, and corporate strategists to industry experts with the knowledge they need to make better decisions.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wIOnB1nviGg


