Title: Louis Vernon "A Journey to Safe, Mission Critical Continuous Delivery at Descartes Labs"
Publication date: 2019-12-03
Playlist: Spinnaker Summit 2019
Description: 
	Studies have shown that high-velocity continuous delivery of services correlates with better service availability, with reduced mean time to recovery and an improved change failure rate. At Descartes Labs we have experienced this first hand. The Descartes Labs platform is comprised of several Kubernetes clusters, dozens of Kubernetes services and tens of thousands of Kubernetes Pods and CPU cores. I will detail a high-velocity service deployment architecture which leverages Spinnaker, Istio & Envoy to allow safe, unsupervised deployment of services on Kubernetes, with a combined deployment frequency exceeding 150 releases per day from a team of 30 engineers.

Real-time data ingest and analytics are an essential part of the Descartes Labs platform, so safe and reliable service deployment is critically important. I will describe the Descartes Labs delivery process and detail an essential component: our automated canary analysis pipeline. This pipeline leverages Istio and Kubernetes metrics, validating service health both at the Kubernetes Pod and L7 level. The pipeline progresses by dynamically patching Istio VirtualServices which control the routing of production traffic between production, baseline and canary Kubernetes deployments in a highly granular fashion.

To support this, we have developed a dynamically templated Spinnaker pipeline architecture, allowing our development teams to provision new continuous delivery deployment pipelines via simple JSON parameter files and un-templated manifests that live alongside the application code. The underlying Kubernetes Service and Istio VirtualService architecture is simple and can be extended to many deployment environments and tools. I will demonstrate the canary analysis pipeline and provide links to generic examples of VirtualService manifests and Spinnaker deployment pipelines that could be extended and applied to many contexts.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l0geztCsjcA


