Title: Pere Kyle "Spinnaker @ Scale for Snap’s Multi Cloud Service Mesh (Snap Inc)" - Spinnaker Summit 2019
Publication date: 2019-12-03
Playlist: Spinnaker Summit 2019
Description: 
	In this talk we give the viewer a rare look at Snap’s cloud infrastructure, as well as the Service Mesh paradigm which is becoming increasingly popular amongst large tech companies. We plan to dive into the unique issues surrounding deploying to Service Mesh architectures, and how Snap is using Spinnaker to solve them. The talk will also highlight multiple different OSS technologies in use at Snap in conjunction with Spinnaker (Kubernetes, Envoy, Haproxy).

We have decided to go dual speaker in this talk to give the viewer two complementing voices. Pere is the original advocate and implementer of Spinnaker at Snap, pushing the project along through multiple scaling hurdles. Pere brings unique experience in scaling the Kubernetes use case of Spinnaker, as he has 4 years of Kubernetes deployment experience, and Snap has one of the largest Kubernetes uses in the industry. Jacques brings a wealth of experience in the security realm launching sensitive and challenging projects at Amazon (SWF, Amazon Go), and Snap (Service Mesh). He will discuss security best practices with respect to deploying Spinnaker, and highlight issues he found/fixed while working on this project.

Our talk will begin by giving the definition of what constitutes a Service Mesh, to give the viewer necessary context for the rest of the talk. Next, we will dive into some overviews to how Snap has implemented a Service Mesh in their organization, and talk briefly about the tooling involved. Next, we will dive into the issues around deploying to a Service Mesh type system, and how we can use Spinnaker to solve these issues. With the context of Snaps service mesh defined, we will move the talk towards more Spinnaker specific issues.

Next part of the talk will involve a deep dive on deploying Spinnaker to Kubernetes, and what scaling problems we have had/solved. This will give the viewer some good guidance on how they should deploy Spinnaker at their own organization. We will show the viewer our original and improved architecture designs for Spinnaker and give some detailed learnings that are actionable for any Spinnaker install. We will then go into detail on how we integrated a service into Spinnaker to enable Snap specific business rules, showing the viewer the extensibility of Spinnakers API. We will conclude the talk with future improvements planned to our system, and any future work we have slated for Spinnaker OSS.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-3dkP7WxHsQ


