Title: Emerging Technology Speaker Series - Katherine Isbister and Joshua McVeigh-Schultz, UC Santa Cruz
Publication date: 2019-08-26
Playlist: Emerging Technologies Speaker Series
Description: 
	With support from Mozilla, the research team at UC Santa Cruz's Social Emotional Technology Lab has been studying design factors that lead to positive social encounters and engagement in Virtual Reality. Today we present results and insights from conducting interviews with designers from major and nascent Social VR platforms, toward shaping a broadly accessible and inviting platform for the future. We also discuss ongoing studies and research-through-design prototyping activities. 

Katherine Isbister is a full professor in the University of California, Santa Cruz's Department of Computational Media, where she directs the Social Emotional Technology Lab, and the Center for Computational Experience. Her research combines technical prototyping and evaluative research to advance the state of the art in human computer interaction. Recent projects include hand-held objects (tangible computing) designed to help regulate mood and attention, wearables to augment feelings of connection and co-presence, and a gesture-based door entry authentication system that uses biometrics, among others. She is the author of more than 100 peer-reviewed publications. Isbister’s most recent book from MIT Press is How Games Move Us: Emotion by Design. Her research has been covered in Wired, Scientific American, and many other venues. She was a recipient of MIT Technology Review's Young Innovator Award, and is an ACM Distinguished Scientist. 

Joshua McVeigh-Schulz is an Assistant Professor in the School of Design at San Francisco State University. He an interactive media designer and researcher with a PhD from USC’s School of Cinematic Arts, where his dissertation explored the intersection between ritual and speculative design. His hybrid background intersects fields of HCI, anthropology, media studies, and design research. Recent projects and publications include topics of social VR, immersive design fiction, speculative ritual design, and vernacular accordance theory. He is the recipient of an Intel PhD fellowship, and he has conducted research at MSR and Intel Labs. The work presented was conducted while he was a postdoctoral researcher at UCSC's Social Emotional Technology Lab.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7nBD4lH_uBU


