Title: ET Speaker Series: Ghost Work in Pandemic Times with Mary Gray, Microsoft Research
Publication date: 2020-05-12
Playlist: Emerging Technologies Speaker Series
Description: 
	Gray will draw from Ghost Work: How to Stop Silicon Valley from Building a New Global Underclass (her 2019 book, coauthored with computer scientist Siddharth Suri), to argue that public health and economic recovery hinge on reckoning with the value of on-demand workers. The talk will outline the rise of on-demand services and the labor conditions and market flows that organize it. She will connect the global shift away from a shared worksite, co-present colleagues, and secure employment status many are experiencing today to the lessons learned from people who have been navigating ghost work conditions for more than a decade. Gray will end with a warning about another form of ghost work on the horizon: If not stopped now, the drive to develop automated contact tracing could reinforce ‘the paradox of automation’s last mile’—a relentless tech optimism that draws our attention to tech innovation as it elides the value of contingent human labor. Weathering the COVID-19 pandemic will require building technologies that assist and amplify rather than erase trusted healthcare workers.   
 
Mary L. Gray is a Senior Principal Researcher at Microsoft Research and an Edward J. Safra Center for Ethics Fellow at Harvard University. Gray also maintains a faculty position in the School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering with affiliations in Anthropology and Gender Studies at Indiana University. Gray, an anthropologist and media scholar by training, focuses on how everyday uses of technologies transform people’s lives. She is the co-author of “Ghost Work: How to Stop Silicon Valley from Building a Global Underclass.” Gray chairs the Microsoft Research Ethics Review Program—the only federally-registered review board of its kind in the tech industry. She is recognized as a leading expert in the emerging field of AI and ethics, particularly research at the intersections of computer and social sciences. She currently sits on the California Governor’s Council of Economic Advisors and the board of Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research (PRIM&R), the nation’s oldest organization advancing ethics in the social and biomedical sciences.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aw3pKIYbQ5M


