Title: ET Speaker Series: Bias on the Web - Ricardo Baeza-Yates
Publication date: 2020-05-29
Playlist: Emerging Technologies Speaker Series
Description: 
	Bias on the Web
Ricardo Baeza-Yates, NTENT & Northeastern Univ. at Silicon Valley

Abstract: 
The Web is the most powerful communication medium and the largest public data repository that humankind has created. Its content ranges from great reference sources such as Wikipedia to ugly fake news. Indeed, social (digital) media is just an amplifying mirror of ourselves. Hence, the main challenge of search engines and other websites that rely on web data is to assess the quality of such data. However, as all people have their own biases, web content as well as our web interactions are tainted with many biases. Data bias includes redundancy and spam, while interaction bias includes activity and presentation bias. In addition, sometimes algorithms add bias, particularly in the context of search and recommendation systems. As bias generates bias, we stress the importance of de-biasing data as well as using the context and other techniques such as explore & exploit, to break the filter bubble. The main goal of this talk is to make people aware of the different biases that affect all of us on the Web. Awareness is the first step to be able to fight and reduce the vicious cycle of web bias. For more details see the article of same title in Communications of ACM, June 2018. 

Bio:
Ricardo Baeza-Yates is CTO of NTENT, a semantic search technology company based in California, since 2016. Since 2017, he is also part-time director of CS programs in Northeastern University at Silicon Valley. Before, he was VP of Research at Yahoo Labs from 2006 to 2016. He obtained a Ph.D. in CS from University of Waterloo, Canada, in 1989. He is co-author of the best-seller Modern Information Retrieval textbook, that won the ASIST 2012 Book of the Year award. He has been member of the ACM Council and the Board of the IEEE Computer Society. He is an ACM & IEEE Fellow.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=brr8cZHf2ec


