Title: ET Speaker Series: Rethinking Trust and Well-Being in this Strange New World
Publication date: 2020-05-12
Playlist: Emerging Technologies Speaker Series
Description: 
	ET Speaker Series: Jeff Hancock, Stanford University
Rethinking Trust and Well-Being in this Strange New World

A new trust framework is emerging – fueled by social, economic and technological forces that will profoundly alter how we trust, not only what we see and read online, but also one another. At the same time, technology is now crucial for staying distant socializing while we must keep our social distance. These changes have profound implications for our psychological well-being. In this talk we will discuss how principles from psychology and communication intersect deception, trust and well-being with technology. We will discuss several  studies that reveal key principles to guide how we think about truth and trust on the internet, and I will report on a new meta-analysis examining every study examining social media and well-being. 

Bio
Jeff Hancock is the Harry and Norman Chandler Professor of Communication at Stanford University and the Founding Director of the Stanford Social Media Lab. A leading expert in social media behavior and the psychology of online interaction, Professor Hancock studies the impact of social media and technology on well-being, relationships, deception and trust, identity, and more.

His research has been published in over 100 journal articles and conference proceedings and has been supported by funding from the U.S. National Science Foundation and the U.S. Department of Defense. Professor Hancock’s TED Talk on deception has been seen over 1 million times and his research has been frequently featured in the popular press, including the New York Times, CNN, NPR, CBS and the BBC.

Professor Hancock worked for Canada Customs before earning his PhD in Psychology at Dalhousie University, Canada. He was a Professor of Information Science (and co-Chair) and Communication at Cornell University prior to joining Stanford in 2015. He currently lives in Palo Alto with his wife and daughter, and he regularly gets shot at on the ice as a hockey goalie.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KLWCZNuopco


