Title: To Kill a Monolith: Slaying the Demons of a Monolith with Node.js Microservices on CloudFoundry
Publication date: 2017-10-18
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Europe 2017
Description: 
	To Kill a Monolith: Slaying the Demons of a Monolith with Node.js Microservices on CloudFoundry - Tony Erwin, IBM

The Bluemix UI (which runs on CloudFoundry) is the front-end to Bluemix, IBM’s open cloud hosting platform. The original implementation as a single-page, monolithic Java web app brought with it many demons, such as poor performance, lack of scalability, inability to push small updates, and difficulty for other teams to contribute code. Over the last 2 years, the team has been on a mission to slay these demons by embracing cloud native principles and splitting the monolith into smaller Node.js microservices. The effort to migrate to a more modern and scalable architecture has paid large dividends, but has also left behind a few battle scars from wrestling with the added complexity cloud native can bring. The team had to tackle problems in a wide variety of areas, including: large-scale deployments, continuous integration, monitoring, problem determination, high availability, and security. Tony Erwin will discuss the advantages of microservice architectures, ways that Node.js has increased developer productivity, approaches to phasing microservices into a live product, and real-life lessons learned in the deployment and management of Node.js microservices across multiple CloudFoundry environments. His war stories will prepare you to wage your own battles against monoliths everywhere -- happy slaying!

About Tony Erwin
Tony Erwin is a Senior Software Engineer at IBM and currently the Lead Architect for the IBM Bluemix UI. He's been with IBM for 18 years and has extensive full-stack experience building UIs using a wide variety of technologies. Current interests include cloud, Node.js, microservices, reliability, and performance. In addition, he's a semi-regular blogger on Bluemix and CloudFoundry-related topics.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAo1rB6tQRc


