Title: Keynote Panel: Open Source Investments
Publication date: 2018-03-09
Playlist: Open Source Leadership Summit 2018 - Day 3
Description: 
	Keynote Panel: Open Source Investments - Jocelyn Goldfein, Zetta Venture Partners; Jake Flomenberg, Accel; Erica Brescia, Bitnami; Gary Little, Canvas Ventures; Sirish Raghuram, Platform9; Idit Levine, solo.io; Rashmi Gopinath, Microsoft Ventures 

About Erica Brescia
Erica Brescia is the co-founder and COO of Bitnami. With over 1 million deployments per month, Bitnami provides the largest source of applications and development environments to the world’s leading cloud service providers, such as Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, and Oracle Cloud Platform. In 2016, Erica was the recipient of the Top Women in Cloud award. In her free time, Erica serves on the board of directors of the Linux Foundation, and as an investment partner in X Factor Ventures, which empowers female- led business to succeed.

About Jake Flomenberg
Jake Flomenberg joined Accel in 2012 and focuses on next-generation infrastructure, enterprise software, and security investments.

About Jocelyn Goldfein
Jocelyn Goldfein is a widely recognized industry expert on product strategy, infrastructure and organizational scale. Her career as an engineering leader spans from early stage startups to high-growth years at Facebook and VMware.

About Rashmi Gopinath
Rashmi leads enterprise software investments for Microsoft Ventures in the Bay Area. She brings a combination of strong venture capital and startup operating experience. Previously, Rashmi was an Investment Director at Intel Capital focused on investing in cloud, infrastructure, and big data companies. She also led global business development for high-growth startups Couchbase and BlueData. Prior to that, she held business development and product development positions at GE and Oracle. Rashmi has an MBA from the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University and a Bachelor of Engineering from the University of Mumbai in India.

About Idit Levine
Idit Levine is the founder and CEO of solo.io, where she is aiming to streamline the cloud stack.
Prior to founding solo.io, Idit was the CTO of the cloud management division at EMC and a member of its global CTO Office.

About Gary Little
Gary Little is a founding managing member of Canvas Ventures and has been a partner of Morgenthaler Ventures for 20 years. He focuses on enterprise infrastructure and application investments. Gary has twice been named to Forbes Midas List.

About Sirish Raghuram
Sirish is co-founder and chief executive officer at Platform9. Having experienced virtualization, IaaS and cloud-native industry transitions first hand, Sirish believes that open-source represents the future of enterprise hybrid clouds.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=msdC5AQvbOE


