Title: ReactiveConf 2016 - Sean Grove: The Age of Reason(ML)
Publication date: 2016-11-24
Playlist: ReactiveConf 2016
Description: 
	https://reactiveconf.com 

Meet those driving the change! World-renowned mobile and web innovators got together for three days in one town.

ReactiveConf, October 26 - 28 2016, Bratislava, Slovakia

---

Sean Grove: Living in an async world of React Native

Reason is a new developer experience by Facebook built and championed by the same people behind React. Based on OCaml, it offers powerful type-checking, incredible tooling, fantastic performance, and truly unbelievable reach (as in you'll be sceptical that it's possibly true).

Let's look at the range of practical capabilities of Reason - building universal apps that output browser-targeted code indistinguishable from hand-written Javascript but also compiles down to ARM64 assembly for native iOS apps, or replaces 15 *million* lines of memory and type unsafe operating-system code to create unikernel servers that boot in 50 milliseconds and weigh between 200KB-10MB, all from the same codebase - to the more philosophical, such as how Reason is the first language ever to separate syntax and semantics, and all of the resulting implications - and even the more whimsical, like Reason's relentless focus on developer simplicity and joy.

Full-stack apps in one language, from hypervisor unikernel to clients written in React (or ReactNative) - As easy as JavaScript, as delightful as Elm, as powerful as native, and with unprecedented reach - we're finally entering into an age of Reason.

---

Have you heard about ReactiveConf? According to tech superstars such as David Nolen, Richard Feldman, or Brent Vatne, it’s the best conference on web and mobile app development! It focuses on all things React and beyond and takes place annually in Bratislava, Slovakia.

In 2016, more than 700 attendees from all over the world spent three days in Bratislava getting inspired, sharing amazing new ideas, and meeting more than 30 awesome speakers from companies such as Google, Cognitect, NoRedInk, RethinkDB, Airbnb, Microsoft, Facebook, and the list could go on forever.

If you want to be part of the next event, get your tickets now at https://reactiveconf.com, and React with us!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8LCmLQ1-YqQ


