Title: ReactiveConf 2016 - Max Stoiber: Styled-components: Enforcing best practices
Publication date: 2016-11-23
Playlist: ReactiveConf 2016
Description: 
	https://reactiveconf.com 

Meet those driving the change! World-renowned mobile and web innovators got together for three days in one town.

ReactiveConf, October 26 - 28 2016, Bratislava, Slovakia

---

Max Stoiber: Styled-components: Enforcing best practices

Building user interfaces on the web is hard, because the web, and thus CSS, was inherently made for documents. Because UIs fundamentally are not documents, we've seen a mindset shift towards building them as component-based system – we are now in the component age. The rise of JavaScript frameworks like React, Ember and recently Angular 2, the effort of the W3C to standardize a web-native component system, pattern libraries and styleguides being considered 'the right way to build web applications' and many other things have illuminated this revolution. With that, and a few more things, in mind, Glen Maddern (CSS Modules creator) and I sat down and started thinking about styling in this new era. We took the best of CSS and the web to build a new way to style react applications. Let's talk about what we thought about and why we arrived where we did – 💅 styled-components.

---

Have you heard about ReactiveConf? According to tech superstars such as David Nolen, Richard Feldman, or Brent Vatne, it’s the best conference on web and mobile app development! It focuses on all things React and beyond and takes place annually in Bratislava, Slovakia.

In 2016, more than 700 attendees from all over the world spent three days in Bratislava getting inspired, sharing amazing new ideas, and meeting more than 30 awesome speakers from companies such as Google, Cognitect, NoRedInk, RethinkDB, Airbnb, Microsoft, Facebook, and the list could go on forever.

If you want to be part of the next event, get your tickets now at https://reactiveconf.com, and React with us!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jaqDA7Btm3c


