Title: ReactiveConf 2016 - Michael Glukhovsky: Speed up app development...
Publication date: 2016-11-25
Playlist: ReactiveConf 2016
Description: 
	https://reactiveconf.com 

Meet those driving the change! World-renowned mobile and web innovators got together for three days in one town.

ReactiveConf, October 26 - 28 2016, Bratislava, Slovakia

---

Michael Glukhovsky: Speed up app development with prefabricated, extensible, open-source backends

Building modern apps requires a lot of boilerplate backend code - setting up server endpoints, forwarding requests to the database, and performing authentication are examples of code developers have to write over and over again. In this talk you'll learn how to dramatically cut down development time by using prefabricated, open-source backends like loopback.io and deepstream.io, and how to extend these backends with custom code once your application outgrows the functionality available out of the box. We'll also talk about how prefabricated backends are changing application architectures, and the impact end-to-end event driven application development is making on end-user experience. We’ll also talk about our journey through the process of solving these problems in RethinkDB and Horizon, and how we see the future of web development unfold. Horizon is an open-source developer platform for building realtime, scalable web apps. It is built on top of RethinkDB, and allows app developers to get started with building modern, engaging apps without writing any backend code.

---

Have you heard about ReactiveConf? According to tech superstars such as David Nolen, Richard Feldman, or Brent Vatne, it’s the best conference on web and mobile app development! It focuses on all things React and beyond and takes place annually in Bratislava, Slovakia.

In 2016, more than 700 attendees from all over the world spent three days in Bratislava getting inspired, sharing amazing new ideas, and meeting more than 30 awesome speakers from companies such as Google, Cognitect, NoRedInk, RethinkDB, Airbnb, Microsoft, Facebook, and the list could go on forever.

If you want to be part of the next event, get your tickets now at https://reactiveconf.com, and React with us!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uaDYba7-U2c


