Title: ReactiveConf 2016 LT - Adam Terlson: Reconceptualize your entire app as a function
Publication date: 2016-11-26
Playlist: ReactiveConf 2016
Description: 
	https://reactiveconf.com 

Meet those driving the change! World-renowned mobile and web innovators got together for three days in one town.

ReactiveConf, October 26 - 28 2016, Bratislava, Slovakia

For inspiration, look at one of the most-starred Lightning Talks proposals for ReactiveConf 2016.

---
Adam Terlson: Reconceptualize your entire app as a function

I will articulate what I have come to find to be a superior approach to building React applications — treating them as functions, not templates.
I will introduce how to:
- Separate the application you’re building and the platform its on from the components you write (Hey, that’s this one! Read on!).
- Inject state into your application, and what a “container” aka “connected” aka “smart” component really is.
- Implement more complex features by leveraging Higher Order Components and a compose function — it’s awesome.
- Make your application UI understandable by looking at a single file, not dozens.
- Make your codebase flat without sacrificing grokability.

https://gist.github.com/adamterlson/7997795e4735f5c4a495c8dabd4c368a

---

Do you see yourself on the ReactiveConf stage? Do you want to become the next #ReactJS superstar? If you think you have a great idea everybody in the community should know about, join Lightning Talks, and share the spotlight with the best React experts at ReactiveConf next year!

All you need to do to become a part of them is to submit your proposal to Gist and leave the rest to the community.

The ten most-starred proposals will join our line-up, and the top three ones will get a free ReactiveConf ticket with an invitation to an exclusive dinner with our speakers and VIP guests.

Have you heard about ReactiveConf? According to tech superstars such as David Nolen, Richard Feldman, or Brent Vatne, it’s the best conference on web and mobile app development! It focuses on all things React and beyond and takes place annually in Bratislava, Slovakia.

In 2016, more than 700 attendees from all over the world spent three days in Bratislava getting inspired, sharing amazing new ideas, and meeting more than 30 awesome speakers from companies such as Google, Cognitect, NoRedInk, RethinkDB, Airbnb, Microsoft, Facebook, and the list could go on forever.

If you want to be part of the next event, get your tickets now at https://reactiveconf.com, and React with us!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5rtbSYl70ak


