Title: LAS16-300K2: Overview of IoT Zephyr - Geoff Thorpe - Keynote - IoT Security
Publication date: 2016-09-30
Playlist: Linaro Connect Las Vegas 2016
Description: 
	LAS16-300K2: Overview of IoT Zephyr
Speakers: Geoff Thorpe
Date: September 28, 2016

★ Session Description ★
Title: Overview of IoT Zephyr

Bio:
Geoff Thorpe heads up security within the Microcontroller group of NXP, where the intersection of device security and network security gives him a headache commonly known as “IoT”. His early experience with security topics was very software-centric, as a long-standing member of the OpenSSL team and a contributor to related open source projects. After many years veering off into semiconductors and hardware architecture, his software-bias has been domesticated to some extent but not eradicated.

★ Resources ★
Presentations & Videos: http://connect.linaro.org/resource/las16/las16-300k2/

★ Event Details ★
Linaro Connect Las Vegas 2016 – #LAS16
September 26-30, 2016
http://www.linaro.org
http://connect.linaro.org

★ Presentation Transcript★
http://connect.linaro.org/resource/las16/las16-300k2/

1. Zephyr & IoT Security Geoff Thorpe
2. geoff.thorpe@nxp.com:/Microcontrollers/R&D/Security Software • Involvement in open source around security and networking (OpenSSL member) • Interests in security scalability • Member of Zephyr governance board Hardware • “Datapath” architecture for QorIQ and Layerscape SoCs (Networking) • i.MX apps processors and Kinetis microcontrollers Focused on new security problems (and solutions) brought on by the emergence of IoT Based in Québec City, originally from Wellington, New Zealand. (Was not in LoTR)
3. Zephyr • What, where and why • Status IoT security • Terminology • Disruption • Observations • Where does Zephyr fit into this? Agenda
4. Zephyr • What, where and why • Status IoT security • Terminology • Disruption • Observations • Where does Zephyr fit into this? Agenda See recording of Anas Nashif’s Zephyr talk from Monday
5. Strategic Investment Best-of-Breed RTOS for IoT True Open Source Development and Governance Established Code BasePermissively Licensed Modular Why Zephyr?
6. Current platinum members
7. Zephyr project governance Governance Security TSC Marketing Contributors
8. Direction Marketing / Advocacy Decision makingImpact architecture Benefits of early participation: Participate!
9. … and scratch that itch
10. What is “IoT security”?
11. What is “IoT”?
12. What is “IoT”? •Traditionally-offline “things”  going online
13. What is “security”?
14. Usage “Add security to the product” “Secure the edge-node” “Integrated security, because security is important”
15. Abusage “Add security to the product” “Secure the edge-node” “Integrated security, because security is important” And by security you mean … what exactly?
16. Does “security” mean… • Tamper-proof? • Resistant to side-channel attack? • Able to perform cryptographic operations fast/efficiently? • Key-protection and other logical separation? • Supports secure network protocols? • Protects content restrictions against misuse? • Is kept up-to-date through patch updates? • Reliable/robust in the face of adversarial RF? • You did some code reviews (this time round)?
17. Security facets, a less incomplete list Cryptography; • Software optimization • Hardware IP • Protocol security, interoperability • Privacy, authentication, non-repudiation Secure non-volatile storage Inline encryption (memory, flash, …) Trusted execution (secure boot, …) Key management and protection Certification Code quality and review Vulnerability analysis Best practice Process and production security Compartmentalization/isolation Digital Rights Management IP protection (anti-cloning, …) Resistance to side-channel attacks • Power • Timing • Electromagnetic emissions Emergency response Security maintenance Attack detection Reliability (quality-of-service, stability, …)
18. What is “security”?
19. What is “security”? •“Security” on its own can mean almost anything “Security” on its own means almost nothing •It’s almost always context-dependent, in terms of interpretation and importance of those different facets. •“The minimization of insecurity (or ‘threats’)” ?
20. What is “IoT security”?
21. What is “IoT security”? The meeting (perfect storm) of two domains; •Device security •Network and logical security
22. What is “IoT security”? Device Security Network Security Secure non-volatile storage Cryptographic s/w and h/w Inline encryption (memory, flash, …) Protocol security & interoperability Trusted execution (secure boot, …) Usability and clarity Key management and protection Code quality and review Certification Best practice Vulnerability analysis Emergency response Process and production security Security maintenance DRM & IP protection (anti-cloning, …) Attack detection Resistance to side-channel attacks Reliability (quality-of-service, stability, …)

More: http://connect.linaro.org/resource/las16/las16-300k2/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N_jXkw3bFVE


