Title: Panel: The Future is Cloud Native
Publication date: 2017-06-26
Playlist: Open Source Summit Japan 2017
Description: 
	Many of today’s software-defined organizations, like Ticketmaster, ShowMax and VSCO, look to cloud native projects for crucial management and maintenance within their ever-changing infrastructures. Chris Aniszczyk, COO of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation, will moderate an introspective panel – featuring cloud native insiders like Keiko Harada, Ian Lewis and Eduardo Silva – to discuss how these thriving open source projects will help shape modern infrastructure. This expert panel will also address what it takes to develop meaningful cloud native systems, how these technologies fit into the overall stack, how to foster committed maintainers for emerging cloud native projects, and much more.

About Chris Aniszczyk

Chris Aniszczyk is an engineer by trade with a passion for open source and building communities. At Twitter, he created their open source program and led their open source efforts. For many years he served on the Eclipse Foundation's Board of Directors representing the committer community and the Java Community Process Executive Committee. In a previous life, he bootstrapped a consulting company, made many mistakes, lead and hacked on many eclipse.org and Linux related projects. He is now the COO of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation and VP of Developer Programs at The Linux Foundation.

About Keiko Harada

Microsoft Program Manager responsible for driving Container and VMWare Monitoring Solution on multi-OS platform. Focused on implementing great support for open source software in the Microsoft Operations Management Suite.

About Ian Lewis

I am a Developer Advocate at Google on the Google Cloud Platform team. Originally from Washington D.C. I have been based in Tokyo since 2006. I am active in the Python and Go communities in Tokyo and am a founder, board member, and media team lead of PyCon JP, the largest Python event in Japan. I have given talks at PyCon JP, PyCon APAC, and numerous local meetups.

About Eduardo Silva

Eduardo is an Open Source Engineer at Treasure Data Inc. He currently leads the efforts to make logging more scalable in Containerized and Orchestrated systems such as Kubernetes.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vU8BjJsxXgw


