Title: LB4OMP: A Load Balancing Library for OpenMP
Publication date: 2020-12-21
Playlist: European OpenMP Users Conference 2020
Description: 
	This talk was presented at the 3rd European OpenMP Users Conference in 2020

Presented by : Jonas Korndörfer, University of Basel

Conference Website: https://openmpusers.org
Follow us: https://twitter.com/openmp_users

Presentation Abstract :
The OpenMP standard specifies only three loop scheduling techniques. This hinders research on novel scheduling techniques since a fair comparison with other existing techniques from the literature is not feasible for multithreaded applications using OpenMP. The three scheduling techniques available in OpenMP may not achieve the highest performance for arbitrary application-system pairs. We will start the talk by introducing LB4OMP, an extended LLVM OpenMP runtime library that implements fourteen dynamic loop self-scheduling (DLS) techniques in addition to those in the standard OpenMP runtime implementations. Via the eighteen algorithms, LB4OMP offers improved performance to application-system pairs in the presence of unpredictable variations in the execution environment. LB4OMP also includes performance measurement features to collect detailed information of the execution of parallel loops with OpenMP. These features facilitate understanding the impact of load balancing of OpenMP loops on application performance. The features support the measurement of the parallel loop execution time, each thread’s execution time, the mean and standard deviation of the iterations execution time, and the chunk of iterations self-scheduled by each thread in every scheduling step. LB4OMP is open-source (available at https://github.com/unibas-dmi-hpc/LB4OMP) and can easily be used (and even extended) by OpenMP developers. We will illustrate the use of the scheduling techniques implemented in LB4OMP, the library features, and present the performance results and their analysis for a selection of the experiments we conducted using 1 application and 3 systems. We will show that the newly implemented scheduling techniques outperform the standard ones by up to 13.33% (with default chunk size). For a given application-system pair we will use LB4OMP to identify the highest performing combination of scheduling techniques. Also, we will show the performance improvements that are otherwise unachievable by the OpenMP standard scheduling options alone by bridging the gap between the state of the art according to the literature and state of the practice of load balancing with LB4OMP. We will conclude the talk by discussing potential extensions of this work, such as automatically load balancing OpenMP applications.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IKLMw8-FJxg


