Title: CF^3 - Putting a Kubernetes Behind CF - Julz Friedman, Andrew Edgar & Julian Skupnjak, IBM
Publication date: 2018-04-21
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	CF^3 - Putting a Kubernetes Behind CF - Julz Friedman, Andrew Edgar & Julian Skupnjak, IBM

Container scheduling is increasingly commoditised. Diego, Kubernetes, Mesos, Nomad, Swarm.. - and all of them could be backends to our beloved CF Platform! You think we have a fever dream ? Come join us in our talk and we’ll prove you wrong. We’ll introduce CUBE (https://github.com/julz/cube), which is a prototype to abstract our way out of being stuck with one particular scheduler. Cube syncs CF apps to a kube backend (or any other container scheduling backend — pluggability ftw!) in exactly the same way that the diego nsync component works today, except using generated OCI images. After staging, you get a nice shippable, auto-patched OCI image, and you can use the regular “cf push” flow and get a first-class Kubernetes Deployment/ReplicaSet (or a Diego LRP, Or a Docker Stack). In other words, it decouples buildpack staging and stateless-multitenant-app running and does both of them in a “cloud native” way, on top of any scheduler”. But that’s enough teasing, come and listen to the talk if we got you interested! 

About Andrew Edgar
Open Source Development

About Julz Friedman

About Julian Skupnjak
Julian Skupnjak is a software engineer at IBM Cloud. He joined IBM with a bachelor degree in 2015 and works as a member of the internal team for Cloud Foundry. Alongside his full-time activities as Software Engineer he continued his study on masters degree level. Recently, he completed his master degree with a thesis in the area of Container Placement Algorithms.
Beside several IBM intern talks about Continuous Delivery, Golang, and tools to empower and enhance CI/CD flows, Julian gave a talk about Serverless Computing at the IoT Conference 2016 in Stuttgart.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9l3GgW95GmQ


