Title: Cloud Foundry and Kubernetes - Will It Blend? - Bernd Krannich, Cornelia Davis, Meaghan Kjelland
Publication date: 2018-04-21
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	Cloud Foundry and Kubernetes - Will It Blend? - Bernd Krannich, SAP, Cornelia Davis, Pivotal, Meaghan Kjelland, Google, Gabe Monroy, Microsoft, Simon Moser, IBM, & Jeff Hobbs, SUSE

"Cloud Foundry Container Runtime (CF CR) based on Kubernetes as an additional component next to Cloud Foundry Application Runtime (CF AR) is the latest addition to the Cloud Foundry ecosystem. All major players in the Cloud Foundry ecosystem — the employers of our panellists included — have already adopted CF CR and are working on adopting CF CR or are major contributors to the Kubernetes ecosystem. In this round, we want to discuss the vision these companies have for the future of the two runtimes in terms of integrating them but also for developers using the opportunities both runtimes bring to the table when it comes to developing and operating solutions that span both. 

About Cornelia Davis
Cornelia Davis is Sr. Director of Technology at Pivotal, where she works on the technology strategy for both Pivotal and for Pivotal customers. Through engagement across Pivotal’s broad customer base, Cornelia develops core cloud platform strategies that drive significant change in enterprise organizations, and influence the Pivotal Cloud Foundry evolution. Currently she is working on ways to bring the various cloud-computing models of Infrastructure as a Service, Application as a Service, Container as a Service and Function as a Service together into a comprehensive offering that allows IT organizations to function at the highest levels. She is the author of the book “Cloud Native: Designing Change-tolerant Software” by Manning Publications (https://www.manning.com/books/cloud-native).

An industry veteran with almost three decades of experience in image processing, scientific visualization, distributed systems and web application architectures, and cloud-native platforms, Cornelia holds the B.S. and M.S. in Computer Science from California State University, Northridge and further studied theory of computing and programming languages at Indiana University.

When not doing those things you can find her on the yoga mat or in the kitchen. 

About Jeff Hobbs
Jeff Hobbs leads the Cloud Application Platform team at SUSE. He has been involved with Cloud Foundry since it was open sourced, as the driver behind Stackato, the first enterprise Cloud Foundry distribution. He works to foster innovation and modern development ideas for enterprise environments.

About Meaghan Kjelland
Meaghan is a Software Engineer at Google working on making Cloud Foundry work well on Google Cloud Platform. She is currently working on Cloud Foundry Container Runtime. She also works on the service broker that brings Google Cloud services to applications running in the Cloud Foundry Application Runtime. 

About Bernd Krannich
Technical Lead, SAP Cloud Platform Cloud Foundry, SAP SE
Bernd works as a technical lead for Cloud Foundry at SAP. He is covering topics around the integration of Cloud Foundry into SAP's cloud platform. Therefore, his interests are cloud computing and related technologies. During his 19 years of working for SAP, Bernd has held various...

About Gabe Monroy
Gabe Monroy is the Lead PM for Containers on Microsoft Azure and represents Microsoft on the governing board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation. Gabe was the founder and CTO of Deis, which was acquired by Microsoft in 2017. As an early contributor to Docker and Kubernetes, Gabe has deep experience with containers in production and frequently advises organizations on PaaS, distributed systems, and cloud-native architectures. 

About Simon Moser
Simon Moser has been at IBM since 2003, where he is currently the lead architect for the Cloud Foundry part of the IBM Cloud. He is interested in many aspects of clouds and distributed systems, emphasising on technologies that allow systems to manage themselves. After receiving his M.Eng., he started his career in various development roles around application servers and Business Process Management, and started his journey in Cloud Computing in 2010. Along the way, he has been chairing various program and steering committees (e.g. BPM and OASIS TOSCA), has been publishing many papers and given many talks at various international conferences. He’s listed as an inventor on a good dozen US patents, and has an adjunct lecturer appointment at University of Jena, Germany. In his spare time, he’s torturing various musical instruments.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ow7IumxkOM


