Title: Designing, Implementing, and Using Reactive APIs - Ben Hale & Paul Harris, Pivotal
Publication date: 2018-04-21
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	Designing, Implementing, and Using Reactive APIs - Ben Hale & Paul Harris, Pivotal

The Java community is on the cusp of a major change in programming model. As the industry moves towards high-performance micro-service architectures, the need for a reactive programming model becomes clear. In this session, the lead developers of the Cloud Foundry Java Client will talk about what led them to choose a reactive API. Using that project as a lens, they'll explore how they designed and implemented this API using Project Reactor and what users will expect when using a reactive API. If you are a developer looking to provide reactive APIs, this is your chance to gain the experience of team building a large, production-ready reactive library. 

About Ben Hale
Ben Hale leads Pivotal's efforts to constantly improve the Java experience on Cloud Foundry. Recently he has been working on the Cloud Foundry Java Buildpack with an eye to making it the best place to run Java applications, in the Cloud or otherwise. In addition, he leads the team that is revamping the Cloud Foundry Java Client, a Java language binding on top of the Cloud Foundry REST APIs.

Prior to working on Cloud Foundry, Ben worked on large-scale middleware management tools, tc Server, dm Server (OSGi), and Spring. If you go back far enough, he even worked on a network management and monitoring application, but will deny it when asked. 

About Paul Harris
Paul Harris is the lead developer for the Cloud Foundry Java Client, working on bringing the power of Cloud Foundry’s API and CLI to Java. Prior to working on Cloud Foundry, Paul worked on large-scale middleware management tools, tc Server, and dm Server (OSGi). He’s worked in a range of industries from medical devices through manufacturing to banking, where he was one of the backroom heroes averting the Y2K disaster.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5rTIJKrvsKA


