Title: Ecosystem Panel Discussion - Moderated by Frederic Lardinois, TechCrunch
Publication date: 2018-04-19
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	Ecosystem Panel Discussion with Molly Crowther, Pivotal, Matt Curry, Director of Cloud Engineering, Allstate Insurance Co., Chen Goldberg, Engineering Director, Google Cloud, Abby Kearns, Executive Director, Cloud Foundry Foundation & Moderator Frederic Lardinois

About Frederic Lardinois
Frederic has spent more than five years covering news and providing analysis about technology, the industry and consumer tech related to the Internet with potential to influence industry direction. At TechCrunch, his focus spans from emerging technologies and niche startups to major product advances by industry titans – all innovation focused. Before he joined TechCrunch in 2012, he founded Silicon Filter and wrote for ReadWriteWeb (now ReadWrite). 

About Molly Crowther
Senior Technical Program Manager for Cloud Foundry, Pivotal
Molly Crowther is a Senior Technical Program Manager for Cloud Foundry at Pivotal.

About Matthew Curry
Director of Cloud Engineering, Allstate Insurance Co.
Matt is a director of Infrastructure Products at Allstate. He maintains a regular presence on multiple podcasts and is an avid Twitter freak.

About Chen Goldberg
Chen Goldberg is a technology leader with 18+ years of experience leading engineering teams. In her current role as Engineering Director, she leads Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) and the OSS Kubernetes and Istio projects teams in Google Cloud. Her team is committed to enable open cloud and ensuring Kubernetes success is sustainable. Chen lives in Sunnyvale, California with her husband and 3 kids. Outside of work she enjoys hiking and making desserts. 

About Abby Kearns
With nearly twenty years in the tech world, Abby Kearns is a true veteran of the industry. Her lengthy career has spanned product marketing, product management and consulting across Fortune 500 companies and startups alike. As Executive Director of Cloud Foundry Foundation, Abby helms the ecosystem of developers, users and applications running on Cloud Foundry, and works closely with the Board to drive the Foundation’s vision and grow the open source project. Prior to Cloud Foundry Foundation, Abby focused on Pivotal Cloud Foundry as part of the Product Management team at Pivotal. She spent eight years at Verizon where she led Product Management and Product Marketing teams dedicated to the early days of cloud services. In her free time, Abby enjoys indulging in food and wine, and spending time with her husband and son.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dJM4MNxu_H8


