Title: SaaSB - One Broker to Rule Them All - Christian Brinker, evoila
Publication date: 2018-04-21
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	SaaSB - One Broker to Rule Them All - Christian Brinker, evoila

 At the foot of mount coal there was forged a service broker. One Broker to rule them all. For the hackathon at the CF Summit Europe 2017 the fellowship of the broker came together to bring Cloud Foundry a service broker to enable access to the marketplace for all of the apps deployed to Cloud Foundry.

Cloud Foundry helps developers to deploy their applications in a fast and easy manner. Thereby one of the key benefits is usage of services from the marketplace. But one problem remains. The high isolation between platform users leads to a lack of interaction points between them. Either sharing solutions between departments in private clouds or monetizing your applications in public clouds is well support.

But why not providing your apps through the marketplace to other platform users? This addresses the winning team of the CF Summit Europe 2017 hackathon with their Software-as-a-Service-Broker. A service broker allowing the platform provider to enable offerings of apps in the marketplace. Normally this needs the development of a new service broker for each kind of app. The SaaSB even enables for a pay-as-you-go selling of the apps via the platform provider.

“One Broker to rule them all,
One Broker to find them;
One Broker to bring them to all
and in Cloud Foundry bind them.” 

About Christian Brinker
As long-standing member of the evoila Automation and Technology team and Automation Engineer Christian Brinker is well experienced in the automation of cloud environments. His focus is the development of software architectures in customized XaaS solutions.

He developed many solutions in and for the Cloud Foundry ecosystem, like service brokers or complex billing systems for Cloud Foundry and OpenStack.

On the CF Summit Europe 2016 and 2017 he presented his teams work on a service broker framework. At the CF Summit Europe 2017 he was track co-chair of the cloud & microservices track and his team won the hackathon. He is also ambassador of the Cloud Foundry foundation. Additionally he gained broad experience as a data scientist resulting in publications and presentations on international conferences.

Christian Brinker works at an agile, German-based cloud engineering and consulting company. The evoila GmbH develops cloud strategies and engineers tools for cloud enablement and improvement. Their customers are small companies, global players and the public sector.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DPGg3vNB3L8


