Title: FINOS All Community Call | 10 September 20
Publication date: 2021-01-12
Playlist: FINOS Guest Speakers & Meetups
Description: 
	FINOS All Community Call | 10 September 20

Wrap-up post & slides: https://www.finos.org/blog/finos-all-community-call-september-2020

During our Q3 “All Community Call” the FINOS team and community provided updates on the continued momentum and great progress across our projects. We've included some highlights below but be sure to check out the video replay to get all of the updates.

FINOS now has 21 active projects, including Waltz (contributed by Deutsche Bank), which became active last quarter. Our number of incubating projects has grown to 20 with the recent contributions of Data Hub from Citi, Morphir from Morgan Stanley and Glue from EPAM.

With our move to the Linux Foundation, FINOS has also introduced Special Interest Groups (SIGs). During its last meeting, the Board approved the creation of a Diversity and Inclusion SIG, which we agree is critical for our industry, community and foundation.

We're also looking at turning two other FINOS initiatives, namely DevOps Mutualization and Open Source FinReg into SIGs and will present these to the Board in October. 

We've now run 14 virtual meetups since we started in April. Couple this with the talks from our experienced and seasoned guest presenters in open source readiness meetings and you get a fantastic library of videos and podcasts.

Our Q3 focus projects are making great progress:

-DevOps Mutualization has identified topics of common interest and is holding its next session on "how banks are orchestrating DevOps and the 'glue' to create workflows".

-Alloy is on target to be open sourced within the next few weeks and has nearly completed the FX Options pilot.

-Morphir has been successfully contributed to FINOS and is looking for new contributors.

-DataHub and DataHelix are working together to building even more powerful solutions to generating synthetic data.

-Security Reference Data is moving ahead with development of a Security & Issuer ID mapping tool.

Consider how you can contribute to one of these or any other of our FINOS projects.

We're always looking for ways to make it easy for individuals to get involved with FINOS projects and for those already active to lead. Over the last few months we've made major changes to simplify our governance. Here are some resources and links you may want to keep handy.

FINOS Community GitHub repo holding all governance docs
Software Project and Standards Project default templates
Lifecycle stages including the addition of Formation
Special Interest Group overview and approved SIGs
Individual Support Program replacing At-Large Membership

If you are project maintainer or contributor, the FINOS team is continuously working to provide automation that can minimize overhead. Check out our Open Developer Platform  or check this cheatsheet for the 5 most useful features of ODP.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cr_hV2uy5tE


