Title: JS Roundabout - Live Stream - August 2020
Publication date: 2020-08-06
Playlist: The JS Roundabout
Description: 
	Intro: 5:00
Talk 1: Build the thing - 6:50
Talk 2: Intro to GitHub Actions - 34:20
Talk 3: Web development and the war of frameworks - 53:00

Hello community - it's been a while!

We are missing you all and are delighted to announce that the JS Roundabout is returning this August!

The format will be slightly different for this months event and will be a webinar! So unfortunately no networking with beer and pizza - but there will still be plenty of opportunities for you to put your questions to the speakers!

Firstly, we will hear from Dave Cooper, Software Engineer for OVO Energy. Dave will be giving a talk titled 'Build the thing'.
Info: Everyone is always talking about things they want to make, but always put off. I want to tell you a story about a thing I made and the tooling behind modern static site generators that make me now want to build all of the things. This talk is aimed at beginners and people who enjoy a good story and things.

Next, we'll hear from Kieran Allen - Software Engineer for OVO Energy. Kieran will be giving a talk on 'Intro to GitHub actions'.
Info: How you're a fool for not using it!

And finally, Kostas Kapetanakis - A Senior JavaScript Developer who is currently contracting. Kostas will be talking about the workflow he us using starting from how the teams (small or large) can work to stay safe from any framework/tool dependency and explain a basic structure of prioritising a useful development process.
Starting from the API definition, split services based on each important task, storage, Authentication, events’ flow etc
A client reference that validates the API contract and operates as a library/SDK consuming it.
The end client focusing on presentation and consuming the SDK API
Then he will explain how a medium sized team can use Agile related tools to organise and be future-proof

Agenda

5.30pm - Quick Introduction (Ben Solomons - JS Roundabout)
5.35pm - Dave Cooper (OVO Energy) - Build the thing
6.00pm - Kieran Allen (OVO Energy) - Intro to GitHub actions
6.30pm - Kostas Kapetanakis (Contractor) - Web development and the war of frameworks, a development process to stay safely away from that war
7.00pm - Finish

Thanks all! Please feel free to spread the word about this meetup on LinkedIn and Twitter! Our handle for both is @jsroundabout
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gp-AK5nzJyw


