Title: Microservices at Beamery - on the Front End - JS Roundabout - March 2019
Publication date: 2019-03-12
Playlist: The JS Roundabout
Description: 
	Jason Felix & Nick Johnson of Beamery

"At Beamery we had a large, AngularJS app, built over several years. Our clients were happy, but we were not. We had several problems:

Building new features was slow. AngularJS doesn’t scale nicely. Features clash with each other. Isolation doesn’t come as standard, you have to work hard to keep features separate. It takes time to get it right. Hiring was hard, for all the reasons listed above. The app was slower than it needed to be because AngularJS was never built for speed. We wanted to render half a million contacts, and Angular was fighting us all the way.

As time went by it become harder to find developers who would willingly choose AngularJS over React, Angular5, Vue, Aurelia or Polymer.

So we faced a choice. We could throw it all away and start again, we could upgrade to Angular 5, or the awesome option - we could use micro frontends. We chose the awesome option."

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oGZufObdkxc


