Title: Web Performance: Expectations vs Reality - JS Roundabout - April 2019
Publication date: 2019-04-05
Playlist: The JS Roundabout
Description: 
	Presented by Jorge Ferreiro.

“Why is my website slow?”, “How can I improve the loading time?”, “How does the browser render a website?”, “What techniques can I apply to boost the speed of my website?”.

You will not only learn about the most common performance mistakes in a webpage but also, what the best solutions are and the main trade-offs when it comes to web performance.

We will see in details the three parts that affect your web performance (network requests, browser parsing, and browser rendering), and we will cover everything from loading non-blocking Javascript, reducing bundle sizes, cache content and more techniques.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wnfz3Lm-_2g


