Title: A Tale of Two Developers: Finding Harmony Between Commercial Software Development and the Apache Way
Publication date: 2017-05-18
Playlist: ApacheCon 2017 - Miami
Description: 
	A Tale of Two Developers: Finding Harmony Between Commercial Software Development and the Apache Way - Andrew Wang & Alex Leblang, Cloudera

Apache community members can reference tenets from the Apache Way such as “community over code” and “openness” as if it were second nature. While they may sound simple, these concepts can be foreign to developers coming to open source for the first time. Success as an Apache contributor stresses skills not emphasized in other types of software development, including reconciling the requirements of the upstream development process with the realities of running a commercial software business.

With the assistance of choreographed Socratic dialogue, our two protagonists, an experienced Apache committer and an enthusiastic young gun contributor, explore the tensions of working on an Apache project as employees of a for-profit company. The audience will learn practical advice and problem solving techniques for working effectively as part of an Apache community. By the end, our greenhorn comes to understand that the yin and yang of commercial software development and the Apache Way can exist in harmony.

About Alex Leblang
Software Engineer, Cloudera

About Andrew Wang
Andrew Wang is a software engineer at Cloudera on the HDFS team, where he has worked on projects including in-memory caching, transparent encryption, and erasure coding. Previously, he was a PhD student in the AMP Lab at UC Berkeley, where he worked on problems related to distributed systems and warehouse-scale computing. He is a committer and PMC member on the Apache Hadoop project, a committer on Apache Kudu (incubating), and holds masters and bachelors degrees in computer science from UC Berkeley and UVa respectively. Andrew has spoken at conferences including Hadoop Summit EU, Strata NYC, Strata London, HBaseCon, ACM SoCC, and USENIX HotCloud.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ea_9qkaTeVw


