Title: Apache Way Panel: Software is Easy; People are Hard - Moderated by Benjamin Young
Publication date: 2017-05-18
Playlist: ApacheCon 2017 - Miami
Description: 
	Apache Way Panel: Software is Easy; People are Hard - Moderated by Benjamin Young, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Community over code is a great mantra and certainly what we're aspiring to here. However, the devil lives in the details and the day-to-day of dealing with those pesky humans in the room is just plain hard.

This panel discussion will explore the years of shared experience (and inexperience!) from within the ASF. We'll discuss getting your community started, dealing with detractors, curating the code (good and bad), and sustaining interest and time from a globally diverse and distributed developer team.

About Benjamin Young
Benjamin Young is a Developer, Web, and Open Source Advocate. Benjamin's focus is on content and how we human beings interface with it and each other around it. He currently explores the edges of a re-decentralized Web leveraging annotation--additional content added by anyone. Benjamin is currently a Solutions Architect at John Wiley & Sons where he works on Annotation and Digital Publishing with the W3C and various open source communities. He has previously worked as an inventor and evangelist for IBM's Cloudant, Couchbase, and CouchOne.

About Steve Blackmon
VP Technology at People Pattern, previously Director of Data Science at W2O Group, co-founder of Ravel, stints at Boeing, Lockheed Martin, and Accenture. Committer and PMC for Apache Streams (incubating). Experienced user of Spark, Storm, Hadoop, Pig, Hive, Nutch, Cassandra, Tinkerpop, and more.

About Rich Bowen
Facebook Message Foursquare Foursquare  Websitedrbacchus.com/
Rich is a member, and the Executive Vice President, of the Apache Software Foundation. He has spoken at almost every ApacheCon. Rich works on the Apache HTTP Server project, and is the author of a few books about httpd. In his day job, he works in the Open Source and Standards group at Red Hat, where he does community things with the OpenStack project. He lives in Lexington, Kentucky.

About Sharan Foga
Sharan Foga have been involved with the ASF since 2008 and has presented at previous Apachecons (Vancouver 2016, Budapest 2015 & 2014). She enjoys working on community management and related areas and is a Committer and PMC Member for Apache OFBiz and Community Development.

About Daniel Gruno
I am a member of the Apache Software Foundation and the chair of Apache STeVe among other things. I work as a consultant for the Apache Software Foundation and as the Chief Innovations Officer of Quenda, a company engrossed in everything Open Source.

About Jim Jagielski
Jim is a well known and acknowledged expert and visionary in Open Source, an accomplished coder, and frequent engaging presenter on all things Open, Web and Cloud related. As a developer, he’s made substantial code contributions to just about every core technology behind the Internet and Web and in 2012 was awarded the O’Reilly Open Source Award and in 2015 the EU Luminary Award for Innovation. He is likely best known as one of the developers, directors, and co-founders of the Apache Software Foundation. He works at Capital One, as a Tech Fellow.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=STkwH6u4p2c


