Title: Keynote: Digital Psychometrics and it's Future Effects on Technology - Sandra Matz
Publication date: 2017-05-17
Playlist: ApacheCon 2017 - Miami
Description: 
	Keynote: Digital Psychometrics and it's Future Effects on Technology - Sandra Matz, Computational Social Scientist

The importance of digital psychometrics – that is the assessment of psychological characteristics via digital footprints – was highlighted recently in the context of Trump’s unexpected victory during the U.S. presidential election. According to international media reports, Trump’s campaign used detailed psychological profiles of 220 million US citizens to target them with more than 175,000 different versions of personalized ads that catered to their values and preferences. In line with the public debate around the effectiveness as well as broader implications of such predictive technologies, this talk focuses on the following three questions: (1) How does digital psychometrics work (2) What are the potential benefits and dangers of digital psychometrics? (3) And finally, what does the future of digital psychometrics hold and how will it affect technology?

About Sandra Matz
Sandra Matz is currently enrolled as a PhD student at the Department of Psychology. After spending a year at the University of Cambridge in 2011/2012, she graduated from the University in Freiburg (Germany) with a 1st Class honours degree in Psychology (BSc) in 2013. Sandra is funded by the German National Academic Foundation which is Germany’s largest and most prestigious funding body.Combining a strong background in methods and statistics with an interest in real-life business needs, her research applies fundamental psychological theory to business contexts. Working with companies around the world, she currently investigates the potential of using predictions of individual differences (mainly personality) from digital footprints in digital marketing and recruitment.In June 2014 Sandra was awarded the Data IQ New Talent Award for her investigations into how the 'Big Five' personality dimensions can be used to increase the effectiveness of digital advertising campaigns on Facebook. In 2015 and 2016, she was named as one of the DataIQ 100 most influential people in data driven marketing. Earlier this year, Sandra was named as one of the 30 top thinkers under 30 by the Pacific Standard Magazine that recognizes young men and women predicted to have a serious impact on the social, political, and economic issues.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hFqGg8a6JHo


