Title: Podling Shark Tank - Jim Jagielski, Sally Khudairi, Justin Mclean, and Roman Shaposhnik
Publication date: 2017-05-17
Playlist: ApacheCon 2017 - Miami
Description: 
	Podling Shark Tank - Jim Jagielski, Capital One; Sally Khudairi, ASF; Justin Mclean, Class Software; Roman Shaposhnik, Pivotal Inc.

Is it a panel? Is it a talk? It is a Podling Shark Tank! Back by popular demand with even sharkier judges! What is it, you ask? Well, this is just like Shark Tank TV show (think speed dating between entrepreneurs and investors) but instead of Squirrel Boss and Man Candle (don't forget to look those up!) you'll be hearing pitches for Apache Incubator projects. Also instead of Mark Cuban and Kevin O'Leary you'll be pitching to the panel of ASF elders (trying to convince them that your project is worthy of their esteemed attention and endorsement). There will be snark, there will be prizes, there will be reciting of Apache Way creed. But most of all there will be fun. We guarantee that!

About Roman Shaposhnik
Roman Shaposhnik is a Director of Open Source at Pivotal Inc and VP of Technology for ODPi at Linux Foundation. He is a committer on Apache Hadoop, co-creator of Apache Bigtop and contributor to various other Hadoop ecosystem projects. He is also an ASF member and a former Chair of Apache Incubator. In his copious free time he managed to co-author "Practical Graph Analytics with Apache Giraph" and he also posts to twitter as @rhatr. Roman has been involved in Open Source software for more than a decade and hacked projects ranging from Linux kernel to FFmpeg multimedia library. He loves good beer and fights against American led IPA invasion one seidla at a time.

About Sally Khudairi
Sally Khudairi is Vice President of Marketing & Publicity at The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) where, in 2002, she was elected its first female and non-technical Member. She is responsible for elevating the ASF’s visibility, and counsels 350+ Apache projects and initiatives in the areas of messaging, outreach, and engagement. Over her 24-year career in the Web, Khudairi has been lauded as a dynamic communications strategist and expert in next-generation innovations, and has played an integral role in building campaigns for some of the industry’s most prominent standards and organizations. Prior to launching the ASF in 1999, Khudairi was deputy to Sir Tim Berners-Lee as Head of Communications at the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), overseeing the launch of 17 specifications that include PNG, CSS, RDF, HTML4, and XML. She is Managing Director and Luxury & Technology Practice lead at HALO Worldwide.

About Justin Mclean
Justin Mclean has more than 25 years experience in developing web based applications and is involved in the open source hardware movement. He runs his own consulting company Class Software and has spoken at numerous conferences in Australia and overseas including previous ApacheCon conferences. In his free time he's active in the Apache Flex and Apache Incubator projects and mentor for a number of projects. He's also co-author of a book on Android mobile development, a casual academic at the University of NSW and runs the IoT (internet of things) meetup in Sydney.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vqcGDltQLo


