Title: A New Way to Profile Node.JS - London Node User Group - August 2018
Publication date: 2018-08-30
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	It’s been weeks and the organisation you work for seems to be slowly turning against you. At least that’s what it feels like. User experience is poor because of slow API’s, sales are being missed, performance-linked SEO heuristics are causing a drop in page ranking. Mobile users have all but given up. Operations have reported that a critical Node.js service owned by your team is spinning at[masked]% CPU, and all parts of the application dependent on the service are experiencing intermittent slowdowns or in some cases, complete unavailability. What are you going to do now?

About the speaker:

David Mark Clements is a Node.js performance specialist and author of Node Cookbook. He is currently serving as Principal Architect with nearForm. David has been coding, speaking and writing about Node.js since Node 0.4 and has worked with frontend JavaScript for 20 years. Of note among David’s open source contributions is Pino, the fastest Node.js logger available (co-authored with Matteo Collina) and 0x, a JavaScript stack profiling tool. David’s book about Node.js, the aforementioned Node Cookbook, is now in its third edition.

@davidmarkclem (nearForm)

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tq3mqrV49l8


