Title: Bootstrapping a Startup with SailsJS - London Node User Group - April 2019
Publication date: 2019-05-02
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Simon Birchall.

Over the last 18 months I have bootstrapped my startup using SailsJS. What did I learn? What do you get out of the box? How has the project evolved? Am I happy with my choice 18 months later?
I have previously used Rails, ASP.MVC and Laravell. I had decided on Node for the backend - but what framework would I choose? What do I really need? What can I trust? How does SailsJS differ to the aforementioned frameworks and how much bang can my buck get?

About the speaker:

Hi, I'm Simon, physics graduate, software engineer, team lead and now technical co-founder of Kiffgo.com. As the technical co-founder I had some stack decisions to make. I arrived at Node + SailsJS. From webpack integration, unit testing to production deployment I've done it with SailsJS and am willing to share my experience.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ljobf0RWr_A


