Title: Create Your Own State Management Library - London Node User Group - July 2019
Publication date: 2019-08-06
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Create Your Own State Management Library
James Porter

How hard is it to make your own state management library? By using React hooks, Context and other open source projects you can easily build your own useful library.
I wanted first class TypeScript support, immutable data, zero boilerplate and hassle free wiring. I built it in a few dozen lines of code: Immutable Context.
I'll demo how to use it via a Code Sandbox demo, how it works under the hood and then look at some lessons learned, with suggestions on how to build your own state management library in 2019.

About
I'm a polyglot developer and data scientist. I've built lots of apps, for example this iPhone app for Isometric graphics. My website/blog is www.amimetic.co.uk. I work with React/React Native at JPMorgan. My Twitter handle is @complexview

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OdIYFt5zyQ8


