Title: Distributed Resource Manager AKA Stork - London Node User Group - June 2018
Publication date: 2018-07-04
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Stephen Young.

At EVRYTHNG we had to a build a number of Node.js applications that required managing multiple resources in a distributed environment. For example, handling real-time connections to other clouds such as Nest and Honeywell and sending notifications to IFTTT applets. What if there was a library that handled the allocation and distribution of these resources so developers could focus on the core business logic of their application?

The EVRYTHNG distributed resource manager is a Node.js library that solves this problem. Developers don’t need to worry about maintaining real-time connections when new nodes are added to the system or if one of them goes down.

In this talk I would demonstrate the resource manager so attendees will see what problems it solves for us at EVRYTHNG. In addition, they will gain an understanding of how we use Node.js at our company and how it helps us scale. Please note that this library is not currently open source but it should be in the next 1-2 months.

About the speaker:

I work as a Technical Lead for EVRYTHNG who provide an IoT platform for businesses around the world. It’s my role to decide on the architecture for various parts of the platform and how we will build these components using Node.js. I’ve been programming in Node for five years.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eVnLbeQHiMs


