Title: Expressless - 200 OK - London Node User Group - May 2018
Publication date: 2018-06-04
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	ExpressLess - 200 OK - Eran Keren

Heard about Serverless? Already know Express.js? Too afraid to use the two?

My talk will cover the following:

Where are my servers? (Moving from the classic setup to a serverless one)

Express.js + Serverless?

How can I test my serverless app? (Offline testing)

Where are my logs?

Wait, are my apis public? (Securing your endpoints)

Shhhhh....(Keeping secrets)

_

About me:

I started my career over a decade ago writing code for firewalls and security systems (c/c++/java). In recent years I've been specialising in cloud engineering, microservices, aws and serverless (mostly in node.js).

Now: I'm the CTO of a young and still in stealth mode startup - sourcingbot.com- plus the usual community announcements, pizza, drinks and ongoing buzz about JavaScript and node

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K95IgP0rn7E


