Title: From Zero To Prod in 2 Minutes - London Node User Group - May 2019
Publication date: 2019-06-04
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Hew Ingram & Thomas Ankcorn

Writing code is great, working out how to host it is less great (for most people!). We recently ran a workshop at CityJs and made sure that everyone walked out of that workshop with an app deployed. In this talk we’ll chat through some of the things that helped us do that (Netlify, serverless functions and Vue) as well as some alternatives (The Serverless framework + lambda etc, firebase and other SPA hosting). The aim? To get everyone to feel empowered to build something fun (and potentially silly).

About the presenters:

Hew Ingram: I’m a Full Stack engineer at Applied (a little startup striving to make hiring fairer, smarter and easier - driving forward diversity in companies). I predominantly use JS but dabble with bits of python, PHP and others. Lover of all things Javascript + a big fan of building cool (weird) things, often for the hell of it.

Thomas Ankcorn: I'm a Software Engineer at BAE. I like JavaScript , starting but not finishing side projects and cats. Often referred to as some dude with a scooter.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K4ybXp8wZ44


