Title: http4js - A Whirlwind Tour - London Node User Group - June 2018
Publication date: 2018-07-04
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Tom Shacham.

http4js is a lightweight http framework. It's immutable, has zero dependencies and is written in typescript. The docs are quite descriptive.

This talk would be mainly live coding to show the main benefits of using http4js over another node http framework. I've presented to colleagues who are now adopting http4js. I'd love to show the community why I think it's a better way to write web apps, by demonstration!

I will go through the main selling points:

- in memory testing of your routing (no more slow end-to-end tests)
- immutable Req/Res objects (so harder to smear state around your codebase)
- a simple http client
- zero dependencies
- support for Koa/Express backends (so you can use your favourite middleware)
- nice things that typescript brings (autocompleting, type safety, ... )
symmetric client and server type signatures (Request = Promise\ , making proxying a cinch)
- Through live coding and real examples I will show how simple and sane http4js can be!

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YwPSMI3cFRs


