Title: Indie Hacking with Postgraphile - London Node User Group - August 2019
Publication date: 2019-09-05
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Thomas Ankcorn

Sometimes I get jealous of the speed people can build complex apps with things like laravel/rails. Node is a great run time but it is arguably a more complex choice for your tech stack, there is no standout MVC framework that does it all for you, instead, there are lots of small specialised tools. I want to talk about one of those. It’s called Postgraphile. It lets you generate a GraphQL API from a schema in a Postgres database. By writing just a little SQL you can create an application that would take a long time to create normally!

I'm going to show you how you can use it to build a meetup.com clone complete with JWT based authentication, real-time meetup ratings, and role-based access control.

About the speaker:

I'm a senior software engineer at Near.st. We are building a real-time local inventory data platform to help small businesses fight back against the growth of online shopping. Outside of work, I'm chasing my life long dream of having a dog, and building silly things with javascript. Follow me on twitter here @thomasankcorn.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hj4gvl8VNBk


