Title: Intro to GraphQL - London Node User Group - September 2018
Publication date: 2018-10-02
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Alex Dytrych.

GraphQL is kind of a buzzword right now - but what even is this new API tech from Facebook? In this talk, we’ll take a look at GraphQL and understand what it is, why you might use it, and how it fits in with the existing API landscape. We’ll have a go at writing some simple GraphQL queries together, and hopefully you’ll go away excited about using this awesome tech in your own work & projects.

About the Speaker:

Alex (@somehats) is a freelance full-stack designer, developer, and educator. When she’s not creating apps, games, and tools for the web, she’s teaching other people how to. Alex has been using GraphQL in production on a number of projects since early 2016, and is super excited about introducing more people to the tech. You can follow her on Twitter at @somehats

https://twitter.com/somehats
https://github.com/somehats

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=byz4uY8M90I


