Title: JSON & Transformational Operations - London Node User Group - September 2019
Publication date: 2019-10-03
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Jason Green

You often want to build an app as quickly as possible. To get some kind of MVP in the hands of users, giving them value and something for you to incrementally improve. Most features can come later, but if you ever intend to offer a shared editing experience of any kind, you really need to think about it up front.

At Threads Styling we were faced with such a prospect when planning their Social Story builder. Having worked with CMSs in the past, we knew the pain of managing document locks with all their edge cases. We also knew that eventually the use case will arise to concurrently edit the document, and if you haven’t planned for it, it is a monumental task.

By treating the document as a stream of JSON patch changes from the very beginning, we were able to offer real-time collaborative editing with conflict resolution smoothly handled by an Operational Transformation algorithm. In this talk, I will discuss the concepts involved and demonstrate a simple, but working example of a shared document using our open source library.

About the speaker: 

I'm a Principal Developer at Threads Styling
Twitter: @aziraphael

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zmSFjI1ny9M


