Title: JURL: Network Protocols Aren't That Scary (Except They Are) - London Node User Group - May 2019
Publication date: 2019-06-04
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Talk about implementation of the functionality of curl written done purely in node. You can do some basic curl stuff with it (e.g. make multipart form data posts to some url, pipe responses to files, handle http and https proxies (provided they support the connect header) to do requests over to http or https, recursively follow location headers, set headers, etc.).

Overall it's a pleasant way to learn some details of networking, starting to write an ssh client in particular requires manually writing the packets as per the ssh protocol which has been a reasonable education in how that sort of things works - Node really does seem to provide nice apis for everything you want.

About the speaker:

I'm a former mathematician who over the last 9 or so months has turned programmer, I currently work as a developer mostly working with JavaScript. I mostly like doing algorithms and stuff and have only recently begun to learn the broader aspects of programming. I really love doing things from 'scratch' (in the sense of just using the stuff provided by the language) as I find it quite insightful.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PpYxByBv1Xk


