Title: Managing Multiple NPM Modules in a Single Repo - London Node User Group - September 2019
Publication date: 2019-10-03
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Nick O'Leary.

Ever since the start of Node-RED, the runtime and editor components have been packaged together as a single blob of npm module.

With the 0.20 release we split the internals apart into 6 separate new npm modules, along with the original node-red module to glue it all back together - and we did it without end users ever knowing (apart from us talking about it at every chance we got).

This talk reveals how we went about this refactoring and the challenges of managing multiple modules in a single repo. I'll talk about why we ultimately decided not to use one of the various mono-repo tools, such as Lerna, and ultimately decided to roll our own approach.

About the speaker: 

I'm an Open Source developer at IBM and the creator of Node-RED.
I can be found online as @knolleary in lots of the usual places.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PzSHkF-adbk


