Title: Objection.js - A SQL ORM - London Node User Group - May 2018
Publication date: 2018-06-04
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Objection.js, a SQL ORM - Paul Jensen

Objection.js is a SQL ORM (Object Relational mapping) for Node.js.

In this talk, I will walk you through how the module works, show live examples of it in action, and present the case for considering it in your Node.js projects.

Things that we'll cover are:

Quick setup
- Creating the underlying database schema for your models via Knex.js
- Creating models and executing SQL queries via the models
- Implementing validation in your models with JSON schema
- Defining relationships between models
- Doing graph inserts and updates
- Setting up a GraphQL API with the objection-graphql plugin
- Other interesting objection.js plugins

_

My name is Paul Jensen, I'm the author of Manning's "Cross Platform Desktop Applications - Using Node, Electron, and NW.js". You can find me on Twitter and Github.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RyQ1MTVjYK8


