Title: RC Functionality Using JS & Browser API's - London Node User Group - June 2019
Publication date: 2019-07-03
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Artsiom Mezin
Preoccupy the User's Tab

Remote desktop apps are widely used. All of them work pretty much the same way: you can see the user's desktop and control their mouse and keyboard. And one of the main purposes of using them is providing support to users. Assuming you are not Microsoft or RedHat probably you are interested only in resolving issues which are related to that piece of software that had been delivered by you. E.g. your web application.
But what if you can't obligate your users to install additional software only for support purposes? Or they simply don't want to install anything.

I'm going to talk about how to add a remote control functionality to your web apps using pure JavaScript and native browser APIs.
SPOILER: Even without using browser extensions!

About the speaker:

I am a Senior Frontend Engineer at Behavox. I have almost 10 years of experience in JavaScript development behind my back. Originally I am from Minsk, Belarus. For now, working for a very promising AI company in London. And the topic of this talk is inspired by the real issue which we resolved recently.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JnW02LgtzCw


