Title: Robots and Food with Node.js - London Node User Group - June 2019
Publication date: 2019-07-03
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Orfeo Nicolai

At Karakuri we build robots for the food industry. I would love to share a peek into our decentralised architecture and how the different robot components interact and communicate with each other. As the physical world is quite I/O heavy, Node.js (TypeScript) was a great choice as our main programming language/framework.

About the speaker: 

I'm a computer scientist with almost 20 years of industry experience. I have a double Masters degree in Innovation Design Engineering and I'm the course leader of the robotics course at the Imperial College Global Summer School. I work as Head of Software at Karakuri, a robotics startup.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hy6j5slzleE


