Title: Security in Node.JS - London Node User Group - August 2019
Publication date: 2019-09-06
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Forbes Lindesay

While working on large node.js projects, I’ve noticed that there is no clear answer to common questions like “how do I securely store passwords”. I’ve also noticed that all the popular frameworks lack key security features such as CSRF protection and Rate Limiting by default. It’s really easy to get security wrong, and it’s not your fault that this is so difficult.

In this talk, I’ll present some practical steps you can take to secure your applications, including protecting against some of the most common attack vectors. I’ll also attempt to inspire you to think differently about what the defaults should be when you build new applications and libraries. We can make our code default to security; it doesn’t have to be this way.

ABOUT ME
I'm a tech lead at Threads Styling and maintain several large open source projects, such as Pug, atauthentication.com and atdatabases.org. My twitter handle is @ForbesLindesay.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IgHWp-Tkgd8


