Title: Using ML Node.JS - London Node User Group - July 2019
Publication date: 2019-08-06
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Using ML Node.JS
Maximilian Berkman

An overview of ML in JS and what I was able to do with it.
How and why would use Machine Learning in NodeJS.
I’ll go over some general concepts in ML and then dive into how I leveraged limdu and created a multi-label classifier (called ac-learn) and how you can do the same. All while seeing how fun and amazing it can be.
The talk would be focused on giving you the pointers and tools to solve problems where ML is usually the best solution as well as how you can hit the ground running.

About
I'm a Computer Science placement student working at BWC in Project Management, Web Dev and various other things (e.g. GDPR and IT support). I've been working with JS for about 7 years and with NodeJS for about 3 years and simply love almost everything about it.
Twitter: @Berkmann18

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s6pbe3tUcJ0


