Title: Zero Knowledge Proofs in Node.JS - London Node User Group - August 2018
Publication date: 2018-08-30
Playlist: London Node User Group
Description: 
	Zero Knowledge Proofs are one of cryptography's best hidden gems and they're behind recent advancements in privacy conscious crypto-currencies.
We're going to see how to use them in node.js and improve your applications' security, whether centralised or distributed.

About the speaker:

Federico Rampazzo is a Software Entrepreneur and Engineer with a passion for Functional Programming, Cryptography and Payments (especially as in "receiving payments" - but also Payment System architectures).
He works for Tes, the biggest community of educators in the world and home to an excellent marketplace for teachers' resources.

@framp (Tes)

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kltostJdnNU


