Title: How Lean is your Scrum - DevConf.CZ 2021
Publication date: 2021-03-15
Playlist: DevConfCZ 2021
Description: 
	Speaker: Leigh Griffin



Scrum has an often unjustified reputation among developers for being a heavyweight framework, with ceremonies designed to ultimately guide a product which can incur a lot of meeting time and commitment to maintenance of tickets, backlogs and requirements documents. Lean looks primarily at waste elimination and in a world that has found itself forced into a work from home culture, Scrum teams are now generating a lot of waste as they adapt their processes to be remote friendly. This is on top of any bad habits that formed around their flavor of Agile. With teams finding themselves experiencing meeting fatigue and drowning in process, the question needs to be asked, how Lean is your Scrum? Join me in this session where we look at the application of some Lean principles to Scrum and showcase the improvements at both a process and team happiness level that resulted from applying them in our remote Agile team.

Red Hat has a long history of remote working, with over half of the workforce long term remote. With covid-19, the vast majority of the company, along with the wider world, have found themselves working from home. Our team, which serves the Open Source communities for Fedora and CentOS, are almost exclusively remote, following our own flavor of Agile which is primarily focused on Scrum, but taking in aspects of Lean and Kanban. Our processes were born remotely and despite that, the pandemic pushed our meeting workload and our team health to the limits. We took a renewed view of the Lean principles that underpinned our processes to make adjustments to how work flows into the team, how the team organises themselves and how we work and live day to day. This session explores some Lean principles that are easily applied and complimentary to Scrum.



Schedule: https://sched.co/gmIC
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kiKW3Yddwx4


