Title: "Facebook, Dynamite, Uber, Bombs, and You" - Lana Brindley (LCA 2020)
Publication date: 2020-01-14
Playlist: linux.conf.au 2020
Description: 
	Lana Brindley

https://lca2020.linux.org.au/schedule/presentation/105/

Consider these two cases: Volkswagen was caught out having written software code that allowed their cars to cheat emissions tests. Uber also developed software (called 'greyball') which allowed them to cheat law enforcement officials trying to crack down on ride-sharing. The difference between them is that Volkswagen software engineers went to jail, and Uber software engineers didn't. Why? Because one is a car company, and one is a software company.

Most industries have had what we might call an "oh no" moment. It's those moments that encourage industries to become better regulated, in order to prevent further disasters. The IT industry has had many moments that could be considered consequential enough to encourage better regulation, but the changes have never been made. Because the industry has avoided effective regulation for so long, it is possible that we are hurtling towards a disaster of epic proportions, one that we haven't even managed to conceive of yet.

In this talk, I will go through some historical examples of disasters leading to regulation in other industries, and the measures that were put into place to mitigate the problem. I will also address some of the major moments from the IT industry that should have prompted regulation, and haven't. Finally, I will discuss ways that IT professionals can blow the whistle on potential disasters before they happen ... without losing your job!

linux.conf.au is a conference about the Linux operating system, and all aspects of the thriving ecosystem of Free and Open Source Software that has grown up around it. Run since 1999, in a different Australian or New Zealand city each year, by a team of local volunteers, LCA invites more than 500 people to learn from the people who shape the future of Open Source. For more information on the conference see https://linux.conf.au/

Produced by NDV: https://youtube.com/channel/UCQ7dFBzZGlBvtU2hCecsBBg?sub_confirmation=1

#linux.conf.au #linux #foss #opensource

Tue Jan 14 10:45:00 2020 at Room 6
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z5Grruo7qcw


