Title: "The appropriation of culture - issues in data management" - Claire Reeler (LCA 2020)
Publication date: 2020-01-14
Playlist: linux.conf.au 2020
Description: 
	Claire Reeler

https://lca2020.linux.org.au/schedule/presentation/155/

The technical challenges attendant on managing data in the GLAM sector are interesting and recent developments in open source software amenable to meeting these challenges are opening up new vistas of possibility for those wishing to assist GLAM institutions (which UNESCO refers to as "memory institutions") in meeting these challenges. The sector itself has become interested in the possibilities of openness - both in the software and the data, and champion the F.A.I.R. principles, which can safeguard humanity's heritage for future generations. Whilst the technological possibilities provide heady visions of future science-fiction-like scenarios where people immerse themselves in wholistic experiences, drenching their senses in vivid augmented realities; there is a concomitant growing awareness of the ethical constraints which must be managed.  Terms such as data sovereignty, data colonialism, cultural appropriation etc. reflect recognised risks and awareness of the interplay between our technological solutions and potential concerns, particularly amongst the indigenous custodians of culture, can assist in cementing strong, long-term relationships between all parties as we walk together into this exciting future.
This presentation aims to provide an overview of ethical considerations for data management in the GLAM sector, with a view to promoting constructive debate on strategies for integrating ethics into technological solutions. Awareness of these issues can also assist each of us, as individuals, to deconstruct aspects of the potential for appropriation of our own lives and to question where humanity as a whole is heading. The heritage of humanity is a concern for all of us and we each contribute to our joint legacy in ways we might not yet realise. By working together we can promote a positive future for humanity as a whole.

linux.conf.au is a conference about the Linux operating system, and all aspects of the thriving ecosystem of Free and Open Source Software that has grown up around it. Run since 1999, in a different Australian or New Zealand city each year, by a team of local volunteers, LCA invites more than 500 people to learn from the people who shape the future of Open Source. For more information on the conference see https://linux.conf.au/

Produced by NDV: https://youtube.com/channel/UCQ7dFBzZGlBvtU2hCecsBBg?sub_confirmation=1

#linux.conf.au #linux #foss #opensource

Tue Jan 14 11:40:00 2020 at Room 5
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-G0mWnrQl6Q


