Title: Rust Programming Techniques
Publication date: 2018-01-28
Playlist: Other Conferences 2018
Description: 
	Nicholas Cameron

http://lca2018.linux.org.au/schedule/presentation/22/

Rust is a language for fearless systems programming. It offers memory safety, data race freedom, and a modern programming environment, without sacrificing low-level control over performance and memory usage.

Learning a new programming language is hard. Even after mastering the syntax and type system, learning the libraries and techniques can take years. If you've read or written Rust and want to improve, this talk will give you a turbo boost! This will be a very practical tutorial, aimed at taking your Rust programming to the next level. We'll teach some core Rust design principles by covering a few key topics in depth. This tutorial is aimed at those with some Rust experience, but if you're a total beginner, you'll still learn a lot about what Rust programming is like in practice.

The tutorial will start with programming 'in the small': we'll explore some key library types (Option, Result, and Iterator) and cover practical error handling. Putting these together we'll see how to structure your control flow to write clear, succinct programs. We'll then cover some larger-scale design issues - using ownership as a primary architectural principle, and abstraction using traits.

You'll learn how to be more productive in Rust by writing clean and idiomatic code. You'll learn to work with the language rather than fighting against it.

This talk was given at Linux.conf.au 2018 (LCA2018) which was held on 22-26 January 2018 in Sydney Australia.

linux.conf.au is a conference about the Linux operating system, and all aspects of the thriving ecosystem of Free and Open Source Software that has grown up around it. Run since 1999, in a different Australian or New Zealand city each year, by a team of local volunteers, LCA invites more than 500 people to learn from the people who shape the future of Open Source. For more information on the conference see https://linux.conf.au/

#linux.conf.au #linux #foss #opensource
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vqavdUGKeb4


