Title: Design Resilient Microservices using Apache Karaf and CXF: practical experience
Publication date: 2020-10-16
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Karaf
Description: 
	Design Resilient Microservices using Apache Karaf and CXF: practical experience
Andrei Shakirin

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Development team just has finished the last feature after months of hard work. Does this mean the software is production ready now? What aspects need to be considered before deployment your Microservices to the production environment? What should you do in emergency situations on production? How to make your software more reliable and resilient by deployment in Cloud? What are the stability and resiliency patterns and anti-patterns? All these questions will be addressed in the talk. Based on practical experience, presenter will demonstrate the best engineering practices to design resilient software using Apache Karaf, CXF, Kafka, ActiveMQ and illustrate them with real life cases. The following topics will be covered in presentation: • Stability anti-patterns (chain reactions, cascading failures, blocked threads) • Stability patterns (Timeouts, Circuit Breaker, Bulkheads, Fail Fast, Async) • Clustering and Load Balancing • Logging and Monitoring • Production Diagnostic • Pooling and Caching • Load and Stress Testing

Andrei is a software architect in the Talend team developing the open source Application Integration platform based on Apache projects. The areas of his interest are REST API design, Microservices, Cloud, resilient distributed systems, security and agile development. Andrei is PMC and committer of Apache CXF and committer of Syncope projects. He is member of OASIS S-RAMP Work Group and speaker at Java and Apache conferences. Last speaking experience: • DOAG 2019, Nov 2019, Nurnberg, Design Production-Ready Software • Karlsruhe Entwickertag 2017, Mai 2017, Karlsruhe, Microservices with OSGi • ApacheCon Europe 2016, Nov 2016, Seville, Microservices with Apache Karaf and Apache CXF: Practical Experience • ApacheCon Europe 2015, Oct 2015, Budapest, Create and Secure Your REST API with Apache CXF • ApacheCon Europe 2014, Nov 2014, Budapest, Design REST Services With CXF JAX-RS Implementation: Lessons Learned • WJAX 2011, Nov 2011, Munich, Apache Days, Enabling Services with Apache CXF
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1I17-2lJvs


