Title: Monitor everything from physical hardware to application functionality - Nicolas Seyvet
Publication date: 2018-04-30
Playlist: foss-north 2018
Description: 
	The IT industry is a diverse and dynamic world where applications and functions may be spread out - and move between a multitude of providers and technologies such as Amazon AWS, Rackspace, KVM, volatile containers, and your internal traditional IT infrastructure with physical servers.

Monitoring all of these might require one monitoring tool per platform, or at least a few to seamlessly blend metrics, events and logs to get true Observability on your environment. OP5's intention is to address this with Project Omega. Designed from the ground up using cloud-native technologies packaged in a container environment to be running on premise or as SaaS, scaling horizontally with Kubernetes.

Initially the focus is on monitoring OpenStack with the Monasca project and developing the agent in and for the community providing patches and reviews since the Queens release of OpenStack, using modern REST API’s, time series database for metrics, message queues using Kafka and preparing the stack to for real-time analysis using Apache Storm.

---

Nicolas Seyvet is a passionate software developer at OP5 AB. Nicolas has worked on a wide range of telco-grade (high-availability, scalable, redundant) applications for the telecom/multimedia business and is experienced in Java/JEE (10+ years) and C/C++ (7+ years) and with databases (SQL, NoSQL). He joined OP5 to work on big data, the cloud, and analytics. Nicolas’s particular interests are coding, software engineering, software architecture, distributed and scalable systems, distributed processing, lean/agile methodologies, and the principles of good leadership. He specializes in software design and architecture of complex, high-performance systems, as well as leading high-performing cross-functional teams.

http://foss-north.se/2018/speakers-and-talks.html#nseyvet
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O4wTHWgygWo


