Title: The ultimate guide to software updates on embedded Linux devices - Mirza Krak
Publication date: 2018-04-27
Playlist: foss-north 2018
Description: 
	Software updates on embedded Linux devices has for a long time been a mess, consisting of "homegrown" solutions specific to a certain project and there was very little re-usage between projects and very little collaboration in our community to solve these complex problems. Luckily for us that time is over and the community around this topic has grown over last couple years and still is growing as the demand increases with the IoT revolution and OTA firmware updates (which introduces even more complexity).

There are now well established open-source solutions that have been "battle tested" that we can collaborate on to make the complexity of software updates manageable. We are heading for a time where a quality Board Support Package should provide an software update implementation because it really should be solved at this level instead of handing this over to application developers which have limited knowledge of low lever architecture on a embedded device.

In this talk Mirza will present some of the challenges of doing software updates on embedded system. He will also present the available open-source projects that help with solving these challenges. The projects are: SWupdate, Mender, RAUC, aktualizr (libostree) and resin.io.

He will also do a head-to-head comparison of them. There is no "one fits all" solution and each one has different goals and approaches to solving the problem. This is something that we have come accustom to in the open-source community and is how we thrive. 

---

Mirza Krak is an embedded Linux developer with over six years of experience in the field and is currently employed by Endian Technologies AB, where he works as a consultant helping companies to deploy embedded Linux devices. He is involved in various open-source projects and is a Linux kernel contributor. Mirza enjoys learning new things and in general sees solutions/opportunities instead of problems. 

http://foss-north.se/2018/speakers-and-talks.html#mkrak
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JyqHQgvarlc


