Title: Why I prefer thick jails over thin jails by Dan Langille
Publication date: 2019-10-21
Playlist: EuroBSDCon 2019, Norway
Description: 
	Why I prefer thick jails over thin jails

Jails have a long history on FreeBSD.  ezjail came along and used a shared basejail for all the jails. Upgrade that jail, and you’ve upgraded all the jails. It was wonderful, convenient, and fast.

After a few upgrades between major versions, the author discovered he hadn’t been runing mergemaster on all those jails for all those years. Useful new features were unavailable, such as include on newsyslog.conf(5). Much time was spent doing mergemaster on many jails.

Furthermore, if you upgraded the basejail, you really need to upgrade all the jails or you’d get stuff failing to run properly.

There is more than one jail manager on FreeBSD. The author has also used iocage and likes each of for different reasons. When he decided to convert a server from ezjail to iocage, the existing script did not work, so he wrote a new one. He has since used it to convert two servers and has plans for two more.

Now, the upgrades between major versions are relatively eaiser, but can be managed on a need-to-do basis. The host can be upgraded one day, and the jails left for weeks, or in the author’s case, months later.

Learn from his mistakes, come see thin-to-thick.

This talk will cover:

    short introduction to jails
    brief overview of ezjail and iocage
    why convert from thin to thick
    the problems solved by the new script
    why thick is not for you
    when thin is better
    monitoring tips to track vulns in your jails
    why you should never use jail managers
    why you should always a jail manager
    why etcmerge is something you should know about

After hearing this talk, you will know how to convert a thick jail to a thin jail and wonder why you never did this before. Your system upgrades will be easier, and your jails will be more robust.

More Info:
https://2019.eurobsdcon.org/talk-speakers/#thick
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kAJ7RzfPaLA


