Title: REST Support for Apache cTAKES
Publication date: 2020-10-14
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: cTAKES
Description: 
	REST Support for Apache cTAKES
Gandhirajan N, Sean Finan

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Apache cTAKES™ is a natural language processing system for the extraction of information from electronic medical record clinical free-text. It's predominantly a desktop-based application. This session will talk about enabling REST support in cTAKES. We will be setting up UMLS knowledge sources in MySQL DB using scripts generated by cTAKES Dictionary Creator GUI which in turn uses MetamorphoSys UMLS installation wizard. We will deploy the cTAKES web REST module in tomcat and the application will use the cTAKES engine to perform analysis of the payload passed via REST call against the MySQL DB source and returns the analysis findings as JSON. We will also have a quick demo of the steps mentioned above. This will help healthcare industry to perform NLP analysis using cTAKES engine with just a REST endpoint.

Gandhirajan N:
Software developer with 15 years of experience in product design and development. Currently working on developing cloud-native applications using Spring Boot and deploying the same in Azure. Apache committer in cTAKES and Cordova projects.

Sean Finan:
Sean Finan is a Software Developer in the CHIP-NLP group, contributing his experience to their ongoing projects that utilize and help expand the capabilities of Natural Language Processing. Originally a Geophysicist and Materials Scientist, Sean gained his interest in software development while creating computer simulations as analogues of physical processes studied in his laboratory research. After leaving academia and a year of employment at the Mayo Clinic, Sean moved to Houston to work eleven years with Landmark Graphics, the leading provider of scientific software for the energy industry. PMC and committer in Apache cTAKES project.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBB4_lycmrw


