Title: SpaCTeS: Extraction of Information on Diagnosis of Stroke from Electronic Health Reports
Publication date: 2020-10-14
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: cTAKES
Description: 
	SpaCTeS: Extraction of Information on Diagnosis of Stroke from Electronic Health Reports
Siamak Barzegar

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Most of the relevant data produced on stroke clinical settings consist of unstructured data (clinical narrative texts in Electronic Health Records (EHR). We tested new TM techniques to assist in the process of extracting relevant information from hospital discharge reports of patients diagnosed with a stroke (2016 to 2017). We developed a TM pipeline structured into iterative phases to gradually improve the quality of transforming narrative discharge reports into structured clinical data representations and generating good practice recommendations. The initial system was developed using Apache cTAKES, a natural language processing for information extraction from the EHR system initially developed by the Mayo Clinic. The main challenge was the heterogeneity of source data (3000 documents in Spanish and Catalan from 28 different hospitals). We developed an analysis tool to test the quality of texts by identifying missing information and non-standard usage of notations and vocabularies. The system also produced a normalized version of the texts. These results allowed us a detailed analysis of the stroke narrative records and the identification of aspects such as heterogeneity (and its problems) and degree of standardization, all of which are critical to enabling better exploitation of the information contained in EHR by TM approaches.

Siamak Barzegar is a Senior Research Engineer at Biomedical Text Mining Unit at Barcelona Supercomputing Center in Spain. He won the Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) research scholarship and received his PhD degree from the National University of Ireland, Galway in December 2018. The main area of his work/research is focusing on Natural Language Processing, Distributional Semantics, Word Embeddings, Deep Learning, Knowledge Extraction on Multilingual & Specific Domains.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DmNBtJPE9EY


