Title: Kernel Hardening: Protecting the Protection Mechanisms - Igor Stoppa, Huawei
Publication date: 2018-10-26
Playlist: Linux Security Summit Europe 2018 - Edinburgh
Description: 
	Kernel Hardening: Protecting the Protection Mechanisms - Igor Stoppa, Huawei 

 The Linux kernel has many security-oriented features and there are efforts to harden it, yet it lacks a systematic approach to hardening those subsystems which are meant to protect it and thus are the first target for an attacker.

The purpose of this presentation is to show the use of the new features developed so far (read-only dynamically allocated memory, rare-write dynamically allocated memory, rare-write statically allocated memory).

It will be shown how to integrate them in some existing and very popular data structures (list, hlist) and use them to protect some critical data (IMA measurements list, for example).

The presentation will conclude with a set of examples extending existing data structures into others with smaller attack surface, that are compatible with the newly introduced memory protection. 

About Igor Stoppa
Igor is a security engineer with Huawei, where he works on kernel hardening. He recently discussed his ongoing work on kernel memory write-protection at the Linux Filesystem and Memory Management 2018 Summit.

Prior to joining Huawei, Igor worked at intel, where he was primarily involved in system integration (secure boot for Yocto based distro) anddevelopment of test automation tools (board flasher/test runner for Yocto). Both of these topics were presented at FSF IoT Summits

Before that, Igor worked at Nokia, as team leader both for power management and BSP R&D for linux-based tablets and phones (Maemo/Meego).

Prior to working on linux, his field of work was embedded development for microcontrollers used in automotive (FIAT group).

Igor holds an MSC in electric engineering from Turing Polytechnic

He likes to play with electronics and embedded devices.
In relation to these hobbies, he gave presentations at Linux Embedded Conferences about I2C protocol and building drones. His latest interest is 3D printing.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mrq2ImIb7fY


