Title: TPM Software Stack - Enabling the TPM2.0 Ecosystem in Linux - Peter Hüwe & Joshua Lock
Publication date: 2018-10-26
Playlist: Linux Security Summit Europe 2018 - Edinburgh
Description: 
	TPM Software Stack - Enabling the TPM2.0 Ecosystem in Linux - Peter Hüwe, Infineon Technologies AG & Joshua Lock, Intel 

Although the TPM2.0 specification was released in 2014 the TPM2.0 support under Linux used to be mediocre at best - until recently.

We gained initial kernel support with v4.0, enabled embedded devices with v4.9 and included the necessary TPM Ressource Manager just recently.

However just two years ago, the future of TPM2.0 userspace support was quite dark.
A single developer from Intel was working on getting the standardized SAPI layer of the stack into shape,
while more and more other non-standard stacks emerged, all trying to solve the same problem.

Today we have a vibrant open source project supporting the TPM2 Software Stack with contributions from Intel, RedHat, Fraunhofer SIT and Infineon - including the latest addition of the more userfriendly eSAPI and a OpenSSL engine.

This talk gives an overview over the TPM2 Software Stack, its use cases and a small road map update. 

About Peter Huewe
Embedded Security Software Developer @ Infineon Technologies AG developing the next generation of Trusted Platform Modules (TPM) and ePassports.

Currently listed as maintainer for the TPM subsystem (but quite inactive to be honest, since Jarkko is doing an excellent job).

OpenSource and Linux enthusiast for 15+ years - advocating the use and support for open source within my organization.
Projectlead for the Infineon sponsored work on the ESAPI part of the TPM Software Stack in collaboration with Fraunhofer SIT and Intel.

Part-time lecturer @ University of Applied Sciences Augsburg.
Youth Leader @ German Alpine Club 

About Joshua Lock
"Joshua has worked on a variety of open source operating system
efforts at Intel's Open Source Technology Center (and elsewhere).
Most notably he spent many years as a core engineer on the Yocto
Project, where he touched most parts of the project from the
OpenEmbedded Core buildsystem to the Buildbot based CI stack.
Recently he has become involved in the TPM2 Software project where he
co-maintains the tpm2-tools. His past speaking experience includes
the Desktop Summit, Embedded Linux Conference and Yocto Project
Developer Day."
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Wx5g6j7yOI


