Title: How FOSSASIA Scales Up and What Comes Next - Hong Phuc Dang- FOSSASIA 2018
Publication date: 2018-03-23
Playlist: FOSSASIA Summit 2018
Description: 
	Speaker: Hong Phuc Dang, Founder FOSSASIA
Info: https://2018.fossasia.org/event/speakers.html#hong-phuc-dang3041

The FOSSASIA developer network is one of the largest communities in the Open Source world today and we are proud to have a positive impact and improving people's lives with Open Technologies. It took us years to develop approaches and processes to scale projects and we are constantly reviewing and working hard on improving ourselves. So, what is next?

What do we want to do next, what do we want to do better and how do we want to help more people, train developers, create better software and hardware and do good?

We came up with three areas, that we want to focus on:

1. In 2018, it is our goal to improve the quality of work of the FOSSASIA organization and contributions in our projects. We believe that the way to move forward is to provide project owners with more responsibilities and ownership. We aim to develop more and more into an organization that provides a framework for projects. Therefore we will continue to develop programs like Codeheat, OpenTechNights, organize meetups, participate in GSoC and GCI. We also plan to cooperate more with other organizations. Why shouldn't we run the OpenTechNights at events around the world and help to bring people together? Why shouldn't we have more OpenTechSummits with partners in China, India and Vietnam?

2. We have made very good experience with our best practices. We have seen that newcomers can progress very fast if they feel welcome and receive help and guidance from others. After they become participants in our programs many contributors move on to support others as mentors. We also see that contributors have moved to large companies, but still continue to help others in the community. This is wonderful. We want to share our experience and inspire other projects. Therefore, we plan to participate in more events, we will set up a monthly live-cast and we will run a YouTube series on these topics. While a lot of traditional school education still encourages a top-down approach we will focus our attention even more on enabling the community to collaborate on an equal level and follow the idea of sharing ideas and code freely.

3. A question that any organization and project encounters over time is how to ensure the work and setup is sustainable? What settings do projects need to succeed? While there are many non-profit organizations out there developing Open Technologies and FOSS, we also see that many people are moving on to companies that often focus on proprietary solutions and prevent contributors from continuing their engagement in the Open Tech community due to financial reasons and to support their families. At the same time, we see many projects that would have a great potential to be Open Source and at the same time commercially successful. Therefore we are starting a new dedicated FOSSASIA Accelerator that is specifically for Open Source projects. We invite projects to apply for the accelerator and investors and companies to team up with us. And, think about it, while many startups these days start with an idea, Open Source startups already have a product before any investment has started. So, these are great opportunities!

The problems in this world are too big. There is a lot of injustice, we are destroying the environment and people are even fighting each others. At FOSSASIA we want to set an example of collaboration across borders and cultures. So, please join us and let's make this a success. I wish everyone a wonderful event full of sharing and new understandings. Let's get inspired to share and learn for each other to build a better world.

Room: Lecture Theatre
Track: Open Data, Internet Society, Community
Date: Thursday, 22nd March, 15:05 - 15:20

Event Page: http://2018.fossasia.org
Follow FOSSASIA on Twitter: https://twitter.com/fossasia/
Like FOSSASIA on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/fossasia/

Produced by Engineers.SG
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5U0SlcRkHM4


