Title: Next Gen Data Lakes using Apache Hudi
Publication date: 2020-10-21
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Big Data (Track 1)
Description: 
	Next Gen Data Lakes using Apache Hudi
Balaji Varadarajan, Sivabalan Narayanan

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Data Lakes are one of the fastest growing trends in managing big data across various industries. Data Lakes offer massively scalable data processing over vast amounts of data. One of the main challenges that companies face in building a data lake is designing the right primitives for organizing their data. Apache Hudi helps implement uniform, best-of-breed data lake standards and primitives. With such primitives in place, next generation data lake would be about efficiency and intelligence. Businesses expect their data lake installations to cater to their ever changing needs while being cost efficient. In this talk, we will discuss new features in Apache Hudi that is catered towards building next-gen data-lake. We will start with basic Apache Hudi primitives such as upsert & delete required to achieve acceptable latencies in ingestion while at the same time providing high quality data by enforcing schematization on datasets. We will look into the novel “record level index” supported by Apache Hudi and how it supports efficient upserts. We will then dive into how Apache Hudi supports query optimization by leveraging its rich metadata. Efficient storage management is a key requirement for large data lake installation. We will look at how Apache Hudi supports intelligent and dynamic re-clustering of data for better storage management and faster query times. Finally, we will discuss how to easily onboard your existing dataset to Apache Hudi format, so you can leverage Apache Hudi efficiency without making any drastic changes to your existing data lake.

Balaji Varadarajan:
Balaji Varadarajan is currently a Staff Engineer in Robinhood's data platform team. Previously he was a tech lead in Uber data platform working on Apache Hudi and Hadoop platform at large. Previously, he was one of the lead engineers in LinkedIn’s databus change capture system. Balaji’s interests lie in large-scale distributed data systems.
Sivabalan Narayanan:
Sivabalan Narayanan is a senior software engineer at Uber overseeing data engineering broadly across the network performance monitoring domain. He is an active contributor to Apache Hudi and also big data enthusiasist whose interest lies in building data lake technologies. Previously, he was one of the core engineers responsible for builiding Linkedin's blob store.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yC5TXyOownw


