Title: Distributed Cloud Native Applications with Node.js: Resistance Is Futile, Resilience Is Crucial
Publication date: 2017-06-22
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Silicon Valley 2017
Description: 
	Distributed Cloud Native Applications with Node.js: Resistance Is Futile, Resilience Is Crucial [I] - Hristo Iliev & Stoyan Rachev, SAP    

Building microservices using Node.js? Hristo and Stoyan stood up to this challenge and had some hard time while working on Abacus, an open source metering service. Join this session to learn from their experience with how to avoid their mistakes. 

The speakers will start by going through the pitfalls of microservices and distributed systems, including how you can troubleshoot and solve typical failures. Next, they will present our Node.js toolset including custom networking modules, Hystrix/Eureka/Turbine integration, and the Mozzle/Riemann/Influx/Grafana monitoring stack that help us build, debug, deploy, and monitor their application at scale on Cloud Foundry. Finally, they will outline how neural networks and the new container networking feature could help with operating such applications.

After attending this talk you will be ready to take a full advantage of these ideas and tools to build scalable and resilient applications.

Hristo Iliev
SAP
Architect
Bulgaria
Twitter Tweet
Hristo Iliev has been a professional developer for over 16 years. He was developing key parts of core, deployment, class loading, configuration, thread and cache management of SAP`s Java EE platform NetWeaver. He also helped to improve Eclipse Virgo - OSGi-based application server, designed to run enterprise Java applications. In the last 6 years, he was integrating cutting edge technologies in SAP HANA Cloud Platform and contributing to Cloud Foundry’s Diego scheduler and the metering and aggregation engine Abacus. Hristo has spoken at Eclipse Con, JAX and ISTA conferences about Java, Eclipse and CF. In his free time, he is organizing a CF Meetup and doing lightsaber duels with his 5-year-old daughter.

Stoyan Rachev
SAP
Sofia, Bulgaria
Twitter Tweet
Stoyan has 19+ years professional experience in software development, as well as people and project management. He is currently a software architect at SAP, focusing on building services for the SAP Cloud Platform. In the last several years, he spoke at SAP internal and external events and jPrime.
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UG68fmG5z9g


