Title: Bootstrapping Secure Mesos Clusters
Publication date: 2017-09-18
Playlist: MesosCon North America 2017
Description: 
	Bootstrapping Secure Mesos Clusters - Vishnu Mohan, Adam Bordelon, Vinod Kone & Jorg Schad, Mesosphere (limited spots, pre-registration suggested)

Apache Mesos offers a range of features that allow you to secure your cluster and prevent breaches and other attacks. This talk will provide an overview of the security features and recommendations for hardening your Mesos cluster. 

The goals of for this talk are to depict how to: 
1. Isolate the cluster perimeter with strong authentication and authorization across all interfaces. 
2. Secure and protect the internal cluster communication, containers, and sandboxes. 
3. Enhance cluster security with support for 3rd party security integrations. 

Topics to cover include: 
1. Security Zones 
2. Security Modes 
3. User and Framework/Service Authentication 
4. User and Framework/Service Authorization 
5. TLS Encryption 
6. Namespaces 
7. Secrets Management 
8. Hardening Recommendations

About 

Vinod Kone
Tech Lead and Engineering Manager, Mesosphere, Inc.
Vinod Kone is a committer and PMC member of the Apache Mesos project. He is currently a Tech Lead and Engineering Manager @ Mesosphere. Previously, he was a Tech Lead and Manager of the Mesos team @Twitter. Vinod completed his PhD in Computer Science from UC Santa Barbara.

Jörg Schad
Software Engineer, Mesosphere
Jörg is a software engineer at Mesosphere in Hamburg. In his previous life he implemented distributed and in memory databases and conducted research in the Hadoop and Cloud area. His speaking experience includes various Meetups, international conferences, and lecture halls.

Vishnu Mohan
Mesosphere
Solutions Architect
Vishnu Mohan is a Solutions Engineer at Mesosphere working closely with strategic customers in the field on Performance, Management and Automation initiatives. When he’s not analyzing sandbox logs or coding against some API for fun, he may be found rock climbing, hiking, running or scuba diving.

Adam Bordelon
Distributed System Engineer
Mesosphere
San Francisco
Websitemesosphere.io
Adam Bordelon is a distributed systems architect at Mesosphere and an Apache Mesos committer. Before joining Mesosphere, Adam lead development on Hadoop core at MapR, built distributed systems for recommendations at Amazon, and re-architected the LabVIEW compiler at National Instruments. He completed his Master’s degree at Rice University, building a tool to analyze supercomputer performance data for bottlenecks and anomalies.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j8GIHfxjg18


