Title: Improving Storage Support in Apache Mesos using CSI
Publication date: 2017-09-18
Playlist: MesosCon North America 2017
Description: 
	Improving Storage Support in Apache Mesos using CSI - Steve Wong, {code}; Jie Yu & James DeFelice, Mesosphere; & Chakravarthy Nelluri, Diamanti

Mesos currently supports both local and external persistent volumes. However, both of them have some limitations. For instance, local persistent volume support requires tedious setup by operators for additional disks. External persistent volume support does not support dynamic provisioning, and Mesos doesn’t track the resources associated with the external volumes. This makes quota control, reservation, fair sharing almost impossible to implement. Our goal is to improve the experience for both of them. The solution is based on a general resource provider model in Mesos, and a standard pluggable interface when talking to storage platforms. This interface is called Container Storage Interface (CSI). This talk will give you an overview about CSI and the resource provider based solution for storage, and dive deeper into how storage platforms can be easily integrated with Mesos using CSI.

About 

Chakravarthy Nelluri
Chief Cloud Architect, Diamanti, Inc.
Chief Architect and founding engineer at Diamanti, the company behind industry's first bare metal container platform. Specializes in Containerization, Networking & Storage.

Steve Wong
Strategic Open Source Partner Engineer, {code}
Steve Wong is an Open Source Engineer with the {code} team. Steve has been participating in the Apache Mesos, DC/OS, Kubernetes, and REX-Ray projects.

James DeFelice
Mesosphere
Distributed Applications Engineer
CT
Websitemesosphere.io
James is a Tech Lead at Mesosphere, Inc, currently focused on framework development and storage. Before joining Mesosphere, he spent time building on-demand VM provisioning platforms and supporting Mesos users in the wild. James has an MS in Bioinformatics from the Rochester Institute of Technology.

Jie Yu
Mesosphere
Tech Lead
Facebook Message
Jie Yu is a Tech Lead at Mesosphere, Inc, focused on containerization, storage and networking. Before joining Mesosphere, he was a software engineer at Twitter. Jie obtained his PhD in Computer Science and Engineering from the University of Michigan where he conducted research for concurrent and event-driven systems.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zhALmyC3Om4


