Title: My Application is Ready for Production... Now What?
Publication date: 2017-09-18
Playlist: MesosCon North America 2017
Description: 
	My Application is Ready for Production... Now What? - Gastón Kleiman, Johannes Unterstein, Kevin Klues, & Philip Norman, Mesosphere (limited spots, pre-registration suggested)

We'll explore the options offered by Mesos, Marathon, and DC/OS to try to answer all these questions and more: 
How do I deploy my application on a Mesos cluster? 
How can I monitor my application and make sure that everything stays running happily?
How can I monitor the underlying infrastructure? 
Help! Something strange is going on with my tasks! How do I debug them? 
Uhm, my tasks are now spread across my entire cluster… how do I deal with all the logs?
Wait, how do my services know how to talk to one another? 
How can I prevent downtime during deployments?

About 

Philip Norman
Software Engineer, Mesosphere
Philip runs the DC/OS day 2 operations working group, and is responsible for the DC/OS metrics project. Philip says: "Come talk to me about monitoring containers!"

Johannes Unterstein
Distributed Applications Engineer, Mesosphere, Inc.
Johannes Unterstein is a Distributed Applications Engineer at Mesosphere in Hamburg where he works on Mesosphere's Marathon project.

Gastón Kleiman
Mesosphere
Distributed Systems Engineer
San Francisco
Gastón Kleiman is a Senior Distributed Software Engineer at Mesosphere - he used to work on Marathon, but is focusing on Apache Mesos these days. Gastón fell in love with distributed systems while contracting for Google and working with Borg, MapReduce and other cool technology. That led him to work at Amazon Web Services on AWS OpsWorks, and on a real-time analytics system at LinkedIn. Speaking experience: MesosCon EU 2016: Securing a Marathon installation.

Kevin Klues
Mesosphere
Tech Lead Manager
San Francisco
Kevin Klues is a Tech Lead Manager at Mesosphere running the DC/OS ClusterOps team. Since joining Mesosphere, Kevin has been involved in the design and implementation of a number of Mesos’s core subsystems, including GPU isolation, Pods, the Mesos CLI and Attach/Exec support. He now leads a team of 10 Engineers working on everything from the DC/OS CLI to the installation, logging, backup/restore, and gathering / reporting of metrics and diagnostics of a running DC/OS cluster. When not working, you can usually find Kevin on a snowboard or up in the mountains in some capacity or another.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aBPzBPq-lHU


