Title: Packet, Qualcomm, & Mesos: A Window into the Development of the Armv8 Ecosystem
Publication date: 2017-09-18
Playlist: MesosCon North America 2017
Description: 
	“One Ring to Bind Them” - Packet, Qualcomm, & Mesos: A Window into the Development of the Armv8 Ecosystem - Ed Vielmetti, Packet

New,​ ​innovative hardware​ ​brings​ ​with​ ​it​ ​the​ opportunity for architectural disruption as well as the ​challenge of how to effectively tap into a vast existing ecosystem of software.  

Cloud native technologies like DC/OS have only increased the velocity and importance of software.  And yet the value to be unlocked from new architectures is ever more compelling, and well worth the struggle.  

Previous MesosCon talks (Asia, June 2017) have spoken about running Mesos on Armv8 processors.  Packet’s Ed Vielmetti will ​use the Qualcomm Centriq™ 2400 (the world’s first 10nm server processor), as a window into the benefits and challenges of embracing new hardware.   

With 48 highly optimized cores, the system provides a compelling new resource for software like DC/OS that is trying to help applications and users get the most out of their infrastructure. Furthermore, Qualcomm’s efforts in concert with the community provides an excellent window into the ecosystem development journey.

As J.R.R. Tolkien said: “All's well that ends better.”

About

Ed Vielmetti
Ed is an Internet veteran with over 30 years experience.

He has extensive experience with networks at all levels - physical, logical, technical, social, political, and financial. He is a graduate of the University of Michigan, and an alumnus of Cisco Systems and Arbor Networks. 

At Packet, Ed leads outreach to a wide variety of software ecosystems, from open source to the Enterprise. His main project is WorksOnARM, which helps to bring cloud native and data center software to ARMv8 servers.

When he's not opening issues on Github, Ed can be found on the amateur radio bands as W8EMV, tinkering with a pile of Raspberry Pis, or co-working at Ann Arbor's Workantile.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3-zfRYBY83Y


