Title: Real-Time Event Processing and Handling Stateful Applications on Apache Mesos
Publication date: 2017-09-18
Playlist: MesosCon North America 2017
Description: 
	Real-Time Event Processing and Handling Stateful Applications on Apache Mesos - Balajee Nagarajan & Venkatesh Sivasubramanian, GE Digital

In order to deliver DevOps a cloud native application development and deployment experience, most enterprises are seeking to run all workloads on a container runtime platform. Come see us cover some of our experience in running non-trivial workloads on Mesos.
Key Points:
1. Quick intro to industrial use-cases and the problem space
2. Learn about our PaaS Journey (w/ Cloud and CloudFoundry)
3. Discussion on how GE is handling stateful applications on Mesos
4. Big Data with Mesos: Learn about how we built a stream processing platform on Mesos:
. Spark Streaming on Mesos (With near realtime performance)
. Heron/Storm on Mesos (where latency in less than few ms matters)
5. Learn how we managed the complexity of stateful applications on a container platform
. Share our experiences with external persistence
6. Demo
a. See how we stitch all these together for a real world use case.

About

Balajee Nagarajan
GE Digital
Director Software Engineering
Balajee Nagarajan is currently Director of Software Engineering at GE Digital, working on building the Predix Platform, where he architects and builds the Container and Application runtime platforms. Prior to joining GE Digital, Balajee was part of the Avi Networks team building next gen Cloud Load balancers and responsible for bootstrapping their QA/Operations and Support teams. He holds a Master in EE from IIT, Chicago.

Venkatesh Sivasubramanian
Venkatesh Sivasubramanian is currently a Senior Director at GE Digital, where he drives the architecture and development of Data Services for Predix, an Industrial IoT platform. Prior to joining GE Digital, he worked as a lead engineer in the Big Fast Data team at WalmartLabs, building its stream processing engine and distributed systems. Venkatesh holds a master’s degree in software engineering from Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), India.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FJjcIJeq5wA


