Title: [2017] OMG, NPIV! Virtualizing Fibre Channel with Linux and KVM  by Paolo Bonzini & Hannes Reinecke
Publication date: 2017-11-02
Playlist: KVM Forum 2017
Description: 
	Fibre Channel is a widely deployed SAN technology. It does provide for a native virtualization support in the form of NPIV (N_Port Id Virtualisation). Unfortunately the Linux implementation, which presents the NPIV port as a SCSI Host, does not lend itself easily to virtualisation with QEMU. Currently QEMU can only forward individual PCI devices and block devices, but no easy way exists to specify how NPIV devices can or should be forwarded. Furthermore, all devices and possibly the partitions and filesystems therein are exposed to the host, which may cause security concerns. This talk will describe the possible solutions for FC virtualization at both the Linux and QEMU levels, and their relative advantages and disadvantages. A short introduction to FC concepts will be included, covering the protocol, HBA and operating system levels.

---

Paolo Bonzini
Red Hat, Inc.
Principal Software Engineer
Turate, Italy

I have been working since 2009 on virtualization for Red Hat, where I am a Principal Software Engineer. My contributions have focused almost exclusively on QEMU and KVM since 2011, and since May 2013 I have been co-maintaining the KVM hypervisor. I first presented my work on QEMU at KVM Forum in 2011.

---

Hannes Reinecke
SUSE Linux GmbH
Teamlead Storage & Networking
Nuernberg, Germany

Studied Physics with main focus image processing in Heidelberg from 1990 until 1997, followed by a PhD in Edinburgh 's Heriot-Watt
University in 2000.
Working at SUSE Labs with focus on storage and mainframe. Principal contact point for storage related issues on SLES and teamlead for storage and networking.
Currently I'm working on dusting out murky corners of the linux SCSI stack, and looking on integrating multipath better with the SCSI and block layer.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ME1IdbtaU5E


