Title: [2017] Introducing vhost-user-scsi and It's Applications by Felipe Franciosi & James Harris
Publication date: 2017-11-22
Playlist: KVM Forum 2017
Description: 
	Qemu provides many powerful storage backends supporting several disk format types. In some cases, however, it may be a design requirement to have a single process managing a storage backend for multiple VMs (similar to what vhost-user-net delivers for networking).

To bring the same concept for storage, we are introducing vhost-user-scsi. This is a new Qemu backend now merged in master which allows a separate process to take ownership of a virtio-scsi device. The flexibility of this model allows such an application to be implemented as a single process for multiple controllers or as one process per controller for added isolation.

In this joint talk by Nutanix and Intel we will introduce the vhost-user-scsi backend, discuss its implementation in Qemu and show how it can be used to achieve amazing performance when integrated with SPDK to explore local and remote NVMe controllers.

---

Felipe Franciosi
Nutanix
Software Engineer
Cambridge, UK

Felipe is a Staff SW Engineer working for Nutanix since October 2015, more specifically on the Acropolis Hypervisor. Previously, he worked for Citrix during four years on the performance of XenServer's storage datapath. Before that, he finished a PhD at Imperial College London on the same subject. Besides performance of virtualised storage, his interests also include operating systems, distributed systems, HPC and computer networks.

Jim Harris
Principal Software Engineer
Intel
Chandler, AZ

Jim is a principal software engineer in Intel's Data Center Group and a core maintainer of the Storage Performance Development Kit (SPDK) open source project. Jim was instrumental in starting the SPDK project in 2013 to provide a framework for building high performance storage software for current and next generation non-volatile media. Jim has been at Intel for 16 years and holds an MS in computer science from Case Western Reserve University.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DxqEaCPijlI


