Title: DrupalCon Austin 2014: COLLABORATIVE SPACES: INTEGRATING DRUPAL WITH GOOGLE DRIVE, DROPBOX, AND MORE
Publication date: 2014-06-05
Playlist: DrupalCon Austin - June 2014
Description: 
	Speakers: cmsdavebarnettech
For many people, services like Google Drive and Dropbox are becoming the go to destinations for their documents. Additionally, services like Google+ Hangouts and Google Talk serve as primary channels for realtime communication. In this session, we'll demonstrate how to create a more collaborative user experience by bridging the gap between the content that is managed in Drupal, and the documents, files, and conversations that are exchanged outside of Drupal. In doing so, we'll explore the idea that you can increase user engagement in your Drupal site by enriching it with highly collaborative tools that your users are likely already using.

In fact, there are many types of Drupal sites can can benefit from integration with these collaborative services, including social communities, intranets, and online learning platforms. APIs provided by Google, Dropbox, and other service providers open the door for many types of useful integrations with Drupal, such as:

Automatically create nodes from Google documents
Display a dynamic list of Dropbox files in a block
Enable your users to create and collaborate on a Google Document - from within Drupal
Automatically insert Webform submissions into a Google spreadsheet
Let your users interact with each other for instant feedback and live chat within Drupal's asynchronous forums or with Jabber — all without leaving your Drupal instance
Allow Drupal users to upload files into a shared Dropbox folder
Provide your users with a way to easily save Drupal files into their own Google Drive account
Automatically Synchronize files from Dropbox shared folders into an Organic Group
Along with the APIs, these types of integrations are made possible with Drupal contrib modules (and maybe a little PHP hacking). But the API implementations have been evolving, and getting things working can be tricky. During the session, we'll take a look at a number of approaches -- showing what's possible, what's easy, and what's hard. We'll review several use cases, including integrations with Organic Groups, and a Higher Ed portal example developed by Babson College.

All examples will be explained and demonstrated using contrib modules that are available on Drupal.org today - so you can take advantage of what you learn right away.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rECLEER1Xd4


