Title: Creating your constitution | Chase Gibbons | Lightning Talks 2021#ngconf
Publication date: 2021-05-31
Playlist: ng-conf 2021 Lightning Talks
Description: 
	This talk geared towards defining a process for creating a unique style guide for your organization. But it goes beyond that. Because you need buy-in from everybody in your organization in order for any style guide you create to be effective. Therefore, he speaks about how organizations can essentially be most effective at creating their own style guides through this process of first creating a constitution which outlines the rules for creating, amending, proposing changes, and voting on proposed changes to style guides and other important matters across a growing organization. If everyone agrees on the process by which we create a style guide, and all the historical voting records are kept up to date, you thereby create a way to make what seems impossible possible and you do your organization a huge favor in the process by creating a living style guide that can be iterated on over the years and that anyone can propose changes to at any time. (Depending on your constitution) It's essentially the rules of engagement if you will. All the rest will follow. This model scales across teams as well, just like states have their own constitution underneath the main US constitution. He gives examples of how to get started and how to do historical record-keeping, etc. If everyone agrees to the process by which we make changes to our style guide, if everyone agrees to the voting standards, voting thresholds, etc, (the constitution) and if everything is tracked in a transparent, open manner, and easily accessible for anyone to propose new changes in a controlled manner—then everyone will be compelled to follow the style guide even if they get out-voted on any particular rule.

Learn the best ways to build reliable web applications, write quality code, choose scalable architectures, and create effective automated tests at the Reliable Web Summit this August 26-27, 2021. Powered by the team at ng-conf.

Get your ticket 👉 https://reliablewebsummit.com/

ng-conf is a multi-day Angular conference focused on delivering the highest quality training in the Angular JavaScript framework. 1000's of developers from across the globe join together to attend talks and workshops by the Angular team and other community experts.

Follow us on twitter https://twitter.com/ngconf​ 
Official Website: https://www.ng-conf.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K40oxGCREcE


