Title: Accelerate your Digital Transformation
Publication date: 2017-06-22
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Silicon Valley 2017
Description: 
	Accelerate your Digital Transformation [I] - Michael Dawson, IBM   

Digital transformation is more than a buzz phrase. Learn how companies are evolving to Cloud, systematically leveraging existing workloads on their current platforms for competitive advantage. This session explores the transition to Cloud using Node.js technologies and unlocking the power of your existing data sets and what you can expect from the Node.js Foundation and community moving forward. See how the ability to start on known and familiar platforms and environments and to maintain a bridge to data on these platforms using new technologies like Node.js can be one of the keys to success of the move to cloud native. 

Come learn about the work IBM is doing to ensure to that:
- Node.js is available across platforms and environments
- that key tools and capabilities are available (monitoring, post mortem investigation)
- you can leverage existing datasets in your cloud native applications using the IBM SDK for Node.js is based on the Node.js™ open source project. It provides a compatible solution for IBM Power™, Intel® and z Systems™ products that require Node.js functionality and package management.

Michael Dawson
IBM
Senior Software Developer
Ottawa, Ontario
Twitter Tweet
Michael Dawson is an active contributor to Node.js and a CTC member. He contributes to a broad range of community efforts including platform support, build infrastructure, N-API, LTS as well as tools to help the community achieve quality with speed (ex: ci jobs, benchmarking and code coverage reporting). Within IBM he leads the Node.js team driving IBM’s Node.js runtime deliveries and their contributions to Node.js and v8 within the Node and google communities. Past experience includes building IBM's Java runtime, building and operating client facing e-commerce applications, building PKI and symmetric based crypto solutions as well as a number of varied consulting engagements. In his spare time he uses Node.js to automate his home and life for fun.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vxQmd8JYcng


