Title: Keynote: Enterprise is the New Black
Publication date: 2017-06-21
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Silicon Valley 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: Enterprise is the New Black - Björn Goerke, CTO , SAP and President, SAP Cloud Platform    

Digital transformation is fundamentally about enabling businesses to quickly innovate on top of their core competencies. For building innovative applications without compromising enterprise-grade qualities, the underlying platform must be agile, robust and open for accessing cutting-edge technologies. In this keynote, you will learn how SAP customers are driving innovations in leaps and bounds in IoT, Machine Learning, eCommerce and other areas by using SAP Cloud Platform -- a Cloud Foundry enterprise Platform offered in a multi-cloud environment.

Björn Goerke
SAP SE
Chief Technology Officer and President SAP Cloud Platform
Björn Goerke is Chief Technology Officer and President of SAP Cloud Platform at SAP SE. He reports directly to Bernd Leukert and Rob Enslin, members of the Executive Board of SAP SE.

Overseeing the technology strategy and standards across all products at SAP as well as product management, development, operations and go-to- market/sales, ecosystem and business development of SAP's innovation Cloud platform-as- a-service SAP Cloud Platform, Björn drives innovation with a global team of more than 4000 employees in Sales and Development across SAP Labs in Germany, India, Bulgaria, United States, Israel, China, Canada and additional countries working along Lean and agile Software Development methodologies and DevOps practices.

With SAP Cloud Platform SAP supports customers in developing and running innovative software solutions in their innovation and digital transformation projects, whether in areas of User Experience, Mobile, Application Integration, Machine Learning, Internet of Things (IoT)/Industry 4.0, Security, Big Data management including SAP HANA, Analytics or application development and operations (DevOps).

SAP Cloud Platform is built around and leveraging Open Source and Open Standards like Open Stack and Cloud Foundry. Based on SAP's commitment to and active support of and contribution to Cloud Foundry, Björn serves as member of the Board of Directors of the Cloud Foundry Foundation.

As part of SAP's long-term commitment to customer success, Björn also oversees the development support and maintenance activities of respective SAP technology products used by more than 70.000 SAP customers in mission critical scenarios. Since joining SAP in 1995, Björn has held several managerial and executive positions in technology and innovation development, both in Germany and the United States.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9t5LqzbNE3c


