Title: Open Service Broker API: Creating a Cross-Platform Standard
Publication date: 2017-06-21
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Silicon Valley 2017
Description: 
	Open Service Broker API: Creating a Cross-Platform Standard - Shannon Coen, Pivotal & Doug Davis, IBM    
Experiments & Extensions    

Integral to Cloud Foundry's success has been the ability for app developers to choose from a marketplace of 3rd party services and easily integrate them with their applications. Exposing services to developers in this way requires the service provider to implement a few API endpoints known collectively as the Service Broker API.

This powerful yet simple model has not gone unnoticed by the broader Cloud Native community. As a result, the CF Foundation has joined forces with other key players in the community to create the new Open Service Broker API project to enhance the API and foster adoption by other platforms, including Kubernetes. This industry wide project will enable service providers to offer their services to multiple platform marketplaces with a single integration, making support for it more compelling to service providers and accelerating the diversity of services available to app developers and ultimately increasing the velocity of innovation.

This talk will introduce the new Open Service Broker API project, its mission, members, and future plans.

Doug Davis
STSM, IBM
Doug works in IBM's Open Source and Standards division. He's been working on Cloud related technologies for many years and has worked on many of the most popular OSS projects, including OpenStack, CloudFoundry, Docker and Kubernetes.

Shannon Coen
Pivotal Software, Inc.
Product Manager
San Francisco Bay Area
"Shannon Coen has been guiding core functionality in Cloud Foundry since joining VMWare in 2012. He stayed with the project when it moved to Pivotal, and served for three years as Product Manager with the Services team from 2013-2015, responsible for the v2 Service Broker API and Service Marketplace. Since 2015 he has served as Product Manager for the Cloud Foundry Routing team. Shannon chairs the Open Service Broker API PMC and is a member of the CF Foundation PMC Council."
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wNJ8jKUWGao


