Title: TrueRec.io: A Blockchain Project Running on Cloud Foundry
Publication date: 2017-06-22
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Silicon Valley 2017
Description: 
	TrueRec.io: A Blockchain Project Running on Cloud Foundry [B] - Nethaji Tummuru, Michael Kunzmann & Mario Ponce, SAP    

We all have gone through the process of hiring or applying for a job. In most cases, it's very tedious to verify a candidate's credentials (academic, employment, professional records), and even more to prove one’s own credentials. After the job offer, the bureaucracy starts. One of the most time-consuming processes is background checks to verify the applicant’s identity, education and employment history. How can a recruiter trust a resume the moment he receives it? How can resume records be notarized and verified in a blink of an eye with bullet-proof confidence? Is it possible to empower applicants to provide pre-verified records and still allow them the ownership of their information? TrueRec solves all these problems by utilizing Blockchain , Machine Learning all built on Cloud Foundry.

In this talk, we will discuss about the building blocks , blockchain architecture and cloud foundry components that we have leveraged.

Michael Kunzmann
SAP
Lead Platform Engineer
My name is Michael Kunzmann and I am the lead Software Platform Engineer of the truerec.io platform. My work focus is in designing, architecting and building the truerec.io platform. I have worked in various Cloud Foundry projects before and currently working on delivering one of the first SAP blockchain pilot products.

Mario Ponce
SAP Labs
Senior Architect
San Francisco Bay Area
Facebook Message LinkedIn Connect
Mario is a Senior Developer working for SAP Labs from the Innovation Center Network Team architecting and developing cloud native applications with Cloud Foundry. Currently developing truerec.io leveraging Ethereum blockchain and computer vision algorithms. Speaker at SAP conferences.

Nethaji Tummuru
SAP Labs
Director of Product development
Palo Alto
Nethaji, is responsible for bringing ideas to market. He has expertise in engineering and product management. He has a strong engineering background with focus on building scalable cloud-native applications. Have strong technical expertise in Cloud, big data, and in-memory platforms. He is currently focused on driving the team in building blockchain distributed applications.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1_xW3o4PvQE


