Title: FOSSASIA Hackathon Opening by Mario Behling and Misako Ito
Publication date: 2019-03-22
Playlist: FOSSASIA Summit 2019 - Hackathon
Description: 
	15 March 2019 15:00, Event Hall 2-2 (Hack Stage)

Join the FOSSASIA Hackathon at the FOSSASIA OpenTechSummit with UNESCO, build awesome apps, games and personal assistants improving people's lives and tackling sustainable development challenges for indigenous people, and win awesome prizes! As part of the celebrations of the International Year of Indigenous Languages the hackathon takes place from Friday 15 March to Sunday 17 March 2019 at the Lifelong Learning Institute in Singapore.

We are specifically interested in applications and games, that tackle questions of indigenous people and their languages and solutions which could be replicated in other countries solving challenges for indigenous populations such as:

Localization, geolocation, Internationalization and multi-language search features of existing software, e.g. Open Event, Badgeyay, Badge Magic or any other FOSSASIA app
Implementation of new skills in different languages in voice applications and smart speakers
Solutions, apps or skills to increase cooperation around indigenous languages, e.g. implementing a website bot
Apps for learning or reading in indigenous languages using chat interfaces
Implementing translation tools, glossaries, e-dictionaries in a personal assistant
Solutions for providing greater access to scientific apps in indigenous languages, e.g. for Open Science apps like PSLab.io
Apps and experiments for promoting scientific knowledge in indigenous languages using different media, images, voice, audio, videos etc., e.g. using PSLab.io
Games solving questions and challenges related languages, indigenous topics, cultures and science
It is our goal to engage the developer community to develop innovative applications as open source by leveraging open data and knowledge-sharing. With the hackathon we support the dissemination of good practices with regard to indigenous languages and increase access to multilingual information and knowledge.

"Languages play a crucial role in the daily lives of people, not only as a tool for communication, education, social integration and development, but also as a repository for each person's unique identity, cultural history, traditions and memory. But despite their immense value, languages around the world continue to disappear at an alarming rate. With this in mind, the United Nations declared 2019 The Year of Indigenous Languages (IY2019) in order to raise awareness of them, not only to benefit the people who speak these languages, but also for others to appreciate the important contribution they make to our world's rich cultural diversity." (en.iyil2019.org)

We are inviting developers, designers, open source contributors, bloggers, journalists and all FOSSASIA community members to be part of the Hackathon. The hackathon is open for all and awesome prizes are waiting for you!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z7dTkbCpYxA


