Title: When Antitrust Law Fails: Breaking Up Big Tech with Grassroots Technology
Publication date: 2019-08-09
Playlist: DebConf 19
Description: 
	by Danny Haidar

At: DebConf19
https://debconf19.debconf.org/talks/104-when-antitrust-law-fails-breaking-up-big-tech-with-grassroots-technology/

From chats apps to cloud storage, the dominant cloud-based services are
designed to be walled gardens: they prohibit inter-operation with other
platforms, they control the flow of your data, and they use network
effects to lock you in. Big tech companies have used this “walled
garden” business model to concentrate market control, leaving consumers
with fewer and fewer real options. In the United States, antitrust law
hasn’t yet succeeded in stopping the concentration of power. But users
want a new way to compute in the cloud: one that is free, open,
trustworthy, and empowering. What should you do while the law catches up
with technology? Free yourself from big tech using grassroots
technology. Enter FreedomBox.

FreedomBox is Debian’s home server system: it is a Debian pure blend
designed to make it easy for anyone to host their own server on
inexpensive, pocket-sized computer hardware. FreedomBox is designed
around the principle that the exploitation of user data and attention
should be technologically impossible. Its simple user interface empowers
individuals to host their own Internet services without technical
expertise, like an encrypted chat server that can replace Whatsapp, a
VoIP server, a personal website, file sharing, a metasearch engine, and
much more. In April 2019, sales of the first-ever commercial FreedomBox
product were launched. The product, dubbed a “Pioneer Edition FreedomBox
Home Server Kit,” is being sold by Olimex, a company which specializes
in Open Source Hardware.

In this talk, you will learn about big tech’s concentration of market
control, how it effects users who rely on cloud services, and why
antitrust law hasn’t succeeded in protecting consumers against this
threat. Next, you will learn why Debian’s world-class software ecosystem
should provide the alternative to big tech. Last, you will learn how
FreedomBox uses Debian to empower people to leave big tech platforms.

This session is targeted at a general audience who is interested in big
tech and the cloud. No prior technical knowledge is required.

Room: Auditório
Scheduled start: 2019-07-23 11:00:00
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oEF7XyaqGMQ


