Title: Lockdown Algorave - GitHub Satellite 2020
Publication date: 2020-05-07
Playlist: GitHub Satellite 2020 - Play
Description: 
	An Algorave performance lockdown style, transmitted live from the UK, 
with visuals from Antonio Roberts (aka hellocatfood) and music from Alex
 McLean (aka yaxu), all live coded. All code will be shared live, as 
it's created and manipulated, for your pleasure!

Alex (@yaxu) explores algorithmic pattern, both in music as co-founder of 
Algorave and the TOPLAP live coding movement, and in textiles as 
researcher of ancient Greek weave structures. He has performed widely 
with his handmade livecoding systems since the year 2000, including at 
Sonar, Bluedot, Shambala, Transmediale and Glastonbury festivals. He is 
active across the digital arts as researcher and practitioner, 
organising hundreds of events including Sheffield's ""AlgoMech"" festival 
of algorithmic and mechanical movement. He created the popular free/open
 source TidalCycles environment for algorithmic pattern, now adopted by a
 worldwide community. He is also an active researcher, holding a PhD in 
Arts and Computational Technology with Goldsmiths, and currently working
 as part of the Research Institute of the History of Science and 
Technology, Deutsches Museum Munich.

hellocatfood is the alias of Antonio Roberts, an artist and curator 
based in Birmingham, UK. For his live performances he uses software 
including Pure Data to explore the creative potential of algorithms, 
glitches, and feedback loops. He has provided visuals for the likes of 
MTV, Com Truise, Blood Sport, Steve Davis, Renick Bell and My Panda 
Shall Fly and at events including SXSW, Supersonic Festival, Barbican, 
Green Man festival and more.

GitHub Satellite: A community connected by code

On May 6th, we threw a free virtual event featuring developers working together on the world’s software, announcements from the GitHub team, and inspiring performances by artists who code.

More information: https://githubsatellite.com
Schedule: https://githubsatellite.com/schedule/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-_9TliNB8k0


