Title: Sponsored Session: An Open-source HCI Platform Built on Kubernetes - Sheng Yang, Rancher
Publication date: 2021-05-09
Playlist: KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2021
Description: 
	Don’t miss out! Join us at our upcoming event: KubeCon + CloudNativeCon North America 2021 in Los Angeles, CA from October 12-15. Learn more at https://kubecon.io The conference features presentations from developers and end users of Kubernetes, Prometheus, Envoy, and all of the other CNCF-hosted projects.

Sponsored Session: An Open-source HCI Platform Built on Kubernetes - Sheng Yang, Rancher

Sharing of Personal Information with Sponsors In order to facilitate networking and business relationships at the event, you may choose to visit a third partyʼs virtual booth or to access sponsored content. You are never required to visit third party booths or to access sponsored content. When visiting a booth (e.g. by clicking on a third partyʼs logo in the Solutions Showcase or exhibitor directory, and any actions within the booth thereafter including viewing resources), when accessing sponsored sessions in the Sponsor Theater, or by participating in sponsored activities, the third party will receive some of your registration data. This data includes your first name, last name, title, company, address, email, standard demographics questions (i.e. job function, industry), and details about the sponsored content or resources you interacted with. If you choose to interact with a virtual booth or access sponsored content, you are explicitly consenting to receipt and use of such data by the third-party recipients, which will be subject to their own privacy policies.

In the past few years, there have been many attempts to bring VM management into container platforms. But in the end, none of these solutions have come close to the popularity of industry-standard virtualization products like vSphere and Nutanix.

We believe the reason is, despite Kubernetes becoming an industry standard, knowledge of it is not widespread among VM administrators. They are familiar with concepts like ISO images, disk volumes, NICs, and VLANS – not concepts like pods and PVCs.

Project Harvester is an open-source alternative to traditional proprietary hyperconverged (HCI) infrastructure software, built on top of Kubernetes. Harvester is designed to be easy to understand, install and operate, even without the knowledge of Kubernetes.

In this session, Sheng will talk about the motivation of building Harvester, explain the architecture, and show a demo of the latest release.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ThYN6b0-2mc


