Title: ApacheCon @Home 2020 Tuesday keynote: Thomas Huang NASA JPL
Publication date: 2020-10-09
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Keynotes
Description: 
	Why Build a Castle When You Can Create a Community

Thomas Huang, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory
Technical Group Supervisor and Strategic Lead for Interactive Analytics

Advancing Satellite Data Analysis through Professional Open Source

Thomas Huang is a Technical Group Supervisor for the JPL’s Data Product Generation Software group. He is also the Strategic Lead for Interactive Analytics for the JPL's National Space Technology Applications Program Office, the Principal Investigator on several NASA Cloud-based big data analytic projects, and the System Architect for the NASA’s Sea Level Change Portal. As an expert in large-scale, distributed intelligent data systems, Thomas led both planetary and earth data system projects. Thomas was the Project Technologist for NASA's Physical Oceanography Distributed Active Archive Center (PO.DAAC). As an advocate for free and open source software, Thomas led the open sourcing of many NASA-funded technologies. He is the architect and founder of the Apache Science Data Analytics Platform (SDAP) as a community-driven, Cloud-based Analytic Center Framework. As an expert in data management and big data architecture, Thomas is a frequent invited speaker and panelist at various Earth and Space Informatics and Open Source events. He recently delivered keynote addresses at the ESA’s Conference on Big Data From Space (BiDS’19) and the Australasian eResearch Organisations (AeRO)’s Collaborative Conference on Computational & Data Intensive Science (C3DIS 2019). Thomas is a member of the NOAA’s Data Archive and Access Requirements Working Group (DAARWG) of the NOAA’s Science Advisory Board (SAB). As an educator, Thomas is also a Computer Science lecturer at the California State Polytechnic University, Pomona, and member of its Industry Advisory Board.

ApacheCon @Home 2020 - https://apachecon.com/acah2020/
The Apache Software Foundation - https://apache.org
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b3fVNt850A8


