Title: The Integration of DevOps and Cybersecurity by Sachin Shridhar
Publication date: 2019-03-31
Playlist: FOSSASIA Summit 2019 - Cybersecurity
Description: 
	15 March 2019 16:30, Lecture Theatre

With the introduction of DevOps, organisations have become more agile. Given the scale and velocity imposed by processes and today’s threat landscape, this also means that organisations can no longer depend on the existing approaches – especially for cybersecurity.

Organisations need to look beyond the current practices and enable a ‘secure by default’ posture. This can be achieved in two ways: by distributing more responsibilities to development and operations teams, and by embracing continuous delivery of applications on newer platforms. Some security practices include:

Permeate security across the organisation. A prudent security posture, including processes and tooling, will permeate the organisation. An adoption of company-wide initiatives, for instance, could be enabled by security teams, but may not be necessarily manned by them.

Bring in the developers. The inclusion of security practices and guidance within the application development lifecycle is key. What this means for businesses is to make that inclusion without a significant cognitive overload to the developers themselves.
Use automation to improve defense posture. To reduce cyber risks, organisations will need to repair vulnerable software through automation – this means that patches are applied as soon as they are released. Repaving servers and applications will also help organisations remove any malware that has already gained access to their systems and prevent them from penetrating the same systems in the future.

In today’s DevOps era, cybersecurity should no longer be at the back burner of any business. Relooking at cybersecurity approaches will enable organisations to reap positive outcomes such as faster responses to business needs and crises caused by incidents or disclosures, and prevention of cyber attacks.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l-B2ETwSA7o


