Title: The State of D&I at the ASF
Publication date: 2020-10-23
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Community
Description: 
	The State of D&I at the ASF
Anita Sarma, Daniel Izquierdo, Griselda Cuevas, Mariam Guizani

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

In this talk we'll talk about the research efforts the D&I committee has been working on for the past year. We'll talk with our researchers and will deep dive into the insights and results we obtained from the three phases of our work: The ASF Community Survey, the D&I research interviews and our quantitative analysis with Bitergia's technology. We'll also have an opportunity to ask questions to the researchers and the team behind this effort.

Anita Sarma
Anita Sarma is an Associate Professor at Oregon State University. Before this she was an Assistant Professor at University of Nebraska, Lincoln; a post-doctoral scholar at Carnegie Mellon University, and a doctoral student at University of California, Irvine. Through this journey her passion has been on helping humans make better software and work together. A primary focus of her research is in facilitating onboarding of newcomers and increasing diversity in open source projects. Overall, Dr. Sarma’s research has resulted in more than 100 peer-reviewed publications an several best paper records and the NSF CAREER award. Her work has been regularly funded through the National Science Foundation and Airforce (AFOSR).
Daniel Izquierdo
Daniel Izquierdo Cortazar is a researcher and one of the founders of Bitergia, a company that provides software analytics for open source ecosystems. Currently the chief data officer at Bitergia, he is focused on the quality of the data, research of new metrics, analysis, and studies of interest for Bitergia customers via data mining and processing. Daniel holds a PhD in free software engineering from the Universidad Rey Juan Carlos in Madrid, where he focused on the analysis of buggy developers activity patterns in the Mozilla community.
Daniel is an active member of the CHAOSS community at the D&I and GrimoireLab working groups as well as an active member of the InnerSource Commons. Griselda Cuevas
Griselda is the V.P. of D&I at the ASF and also a product manager in Google Cloud. She has 13 years of experience in a variety of industries, from oil and gas to cloud computing. She has a Masters in Operation Research and Data Science from UC Berkeley and is passionate about data engineering, open source technology, information architecture, diversity and inclusion in tech & Italian wines. In her spare time she reads and works on diversity and inclusion topics, specially around building frameworks that enable participation of under represented groups in tech. Mariam Guizani Mariam Guizani is a PhD student in Computer Science at Oregon State University. Her research area is in Human-Computer Interaction and Software Engineering. She studies inclusivity in open source environments with a focus on supporting cognitive diversity from the tool perspective. She holds a Master of Science in Computer Science from Oregon State University and was a recipient of the Fulbright scholarship in 2016.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tk_A7XpLzeE


