Title: 2020: Turkish Law on National Geospatial Data and Its Implications Regarding OSM and the Community
Publication date: 2020-07-18
Playlist: State of the Map 2020
Description: 
	https://media.ccc.de/v/sotm2020-4368-turkish-law-on-national-geospatial-data-and-its-implications-regarding-osm-and-the-community



The talk will focus on the Turkish law egulating the acquisition, collection, dissemination and trading of spatial data falling within the responsibility matrix of Turkish National Geographic Information System, effective since February 20, 2020. With the law, acquisition, collection, dissemination and trading of spatial data which is defined within the National Spatial Data Responsibility Matrix by third party individuals or legal entities are subject to prior application fees and approval of the Ministry of Environmental and Urban Affairs. The talk will reflect and report the developments in Turkey after the law, effects and implications drawn focusing on the national spatial sector, OSM, and the Turkish OSM community.

On January 30, members of the Turkish parliament voted in favour of the proposed amendment to the law regulating the acquisition, collection, dissemination and trading of spatial data falling within the responsibility matrix of Turkish National Geographic Information System. The law has officially been put into practice on February 20, with nationwide uncertainties on how it will be enforced, and on what level.

With the law, the sole responsibility and authority on the national spatial data index is given to the Ministry of Environmental and Urban Affairs. Acquisition, collection, dissemination and trading of spatial data which is defined within the National Spatial Data Responsibility Matrix by third party individuals or legal entities are subject to prior approval of the ministry. Moreover, the approval will be subject to a fee of 25₺ for native, 50₺ for foreign parties per each 1/1000 plan corresponding to the study region(s) from the national topographical grid.

The data layers which are included in the national spatial data responsibility list is as follows:

    1. Coordinate Reference Systems and Geographical Grid Systems 
    2. Administrative Units 
    3. Geographical Names 
    4. Cadastre 
    5. Buildings 
    6. Addresses 
    7. Elevation 
    8. Orthophoto 
    9. Transportation Networks 
    10. Hydrography 
    11. Geology 
    12. Land Cover 
    13. Land Use 
    14. Soil Types 
    15. Protection Areas 
    16. Natural Risk Regions 
    17. Infrastructure 
    18. Energy Resources 
    19. Mines 
    20. Public Health and Safety 
    21. Populaiton Demographics 
    22. Environmental Monitoring Facilities 
    23. Industrial Facilities 
    24. Agricultural Facilities 
    25. Public Administration Regions 
    26. Flora and Fauna 
    27. Habitat Zones 
    28. Biogeographical Zones 
    29. Sea and Saltwater Regions 
    30. Atmospherical Data 
    31. Meteorological Data 
    32. NUTS Data 

The talk will reflect and report the developments in Turkey after the law, effects and implications drawn focusing on the national spatial sector, OSM, and the Turkish OSM community.

Can Ünen Orkut Murat Yılmaz

https://2020.stateofthemap.org/sessions/JAG7JD/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kgBhzyXo-AA


