Title: 2020: What to do when local citizens do not consent? A discussion on how to navigate difficult field
Publication date: 2020-07-18
Playlist: State of the Map 2020
Description: 
	https://media.ccc.de/v/sotm2020-4336-what-to-do-when-local-citizens-do-not-consent-a-discussion-on-how-to-navigate-difficult-field-scenarios-that-involve-local-communities-



Most field program managers have their go-to field preparation checklist - this often includes a data model, their preferred data collection tools, field survey timeline, to name a few. We are often cautioned about the importance of community entry, and it is right, you will not be able to just enter the community and start mapping as people will get curious, ask questions and possibly become suspicious or hesitant to accept your data collection activities. At HOT, we employe participatory mapping methods and encourage local people to map their communities. However, sometimes with even all the correct steps followed, your activities can be hindered due to factors outside of your control. In this session, we will explore one of HOT’s field mapping projects implemented in Kampala in collaboration with the Kampala Capital City Authority that aimed to map community-level flood risk in a local suburb along the Nakamiro Channel catchment area. Despite all the correct steps taken, community entry in a specific jurisdiction felt impossible and field mapping could not be carried out. In this session, our aim is to first discuss what went wrong and how our field team approached this situation and later invite participants/attendees to share similar challenges experienced in the field and how these situations were overcome or addressed.

Most field program managers have their go-to field preparation checklist - this often includes a data model, their preferred data collection tools, field survey timeline, to name a few. We are often cautioned about the importance of community entry, and it is right, you will not be able to just enter the community and start mapping as people will get curious, ask questions and possibly become suspicious or hesitant to accept your data collection activities. At HOT, we employe participatory mapping methods and encourage local people to map their communities. However, sometimes with even all the correct steps followed, your activities can be hindered due to factors outside of your control. In this session, we will explore one of HOT’s field mapping projects implemented in Kampala in collaboration with the Kampala Capital City Authority that aimed to map community-level flood risk in a local suburb along the Nakamiro Channel catchment area. Despite all the correct steps taken, community entry in a specific jurisdiction felt impossible and field mapping could not be carried out. In this session, our aim is to first discuss what went wrong and how our field team approached this situation and later invite participants/attendees to share similar challenges experienced in the field and how these situations were overcome or addressed.

Shamilah Nassozi

https://2020.stateofthemap.org/sessions/SAEWDP/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rWZh_sudQF8


