Title: 15 cool things you didn't know you could do with snaps
Publication date: 2021-05-30
Playlist: Linux App Summit 2021 Talks
Description: 
	You must have heard about snaps, perhaps even used them. But have you fully explored and discovered the powers of the snap ecosystem?

In this talk, we will show you some neat tips and tricks and best practices on how to develop and use snaps, with maximum efficiency and speed. There will be something for everyone, from a developer just starting with snaps to diehard veterans with many a snapcraft.yaml under their digital belt. We will also unveil a few handy secrets for snap users, so you can have a fun, productive experience.



Author(s) Bio

Igor Ljubuncic is a physicist by vocation and a Linux geek by profession. He works as a developer advocate at Canonical, and comes with many years of experience in the industry, including medical, high-performance computing, data center, cloud, and hosting fields. To date, Igor’s portfolio includes 18 books, 15 patents, several open-source projects, numerous articles published in leading journals and magazines, and presentations at prestigious international conferences like LinuxCon, CloudOpen, OpenStack days, IEEE events, and others. In his free time, Igor writes car reviews, fantasy novels and manages his award-winning blog.


Q&A


1. Do parallel instalations isolate instance app configurations?

2. Will it be possible to configure refreshing from the store GUI, or the updates app, or the repositories, to make it more friendly for newbies?

3. Can we force snapshots on any snap?

4. Does Debian also have such system/feature? The Snapshots. Yes, ty

5. what will happen if different users install the same snap? will different snaps will be installed? 

6. Can you use the "home" interface to give each snap its own home directory, mapping to an arbitrary location in the filesystem?

7. what containerization tools are used in SNAP (ex. bubblewrap in flatpak)

8. What's the status of snap support across distros?

9. Aww, nobody uses Fedora on the team anymore? :'(

10. Other distribution bases for snaps possible?
freedesktop-sdk has been working with snap team to make this possible but we are not there yet, I think this is the thread; https://forum.snapcraft.io/t/base-runtime-freedesktop-sdk-runtime-19-08/11153

11. what's your favourite experimental feature?

12. Do you know if there's some chance of Fedora Silverblue supporting snaps? (Classic snaps use /snap, which is forbidden by RPM-OSTree, regular confined snaps work fine)

13. how can we make sure developers update dependencies for security?
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=moZeiLwBA2Q


