Title: Adaptive Apps: The Future is Now
Publication date: 2021-05-30
Playlist: Linux App Summit 2021 Talks
Description: 
	Over the past few years we have laid the foundation for an ecosystem of GNOME apps that work seamlessly across form factors, from phones to desktops and everything inbetween. There are now dozens of core and third party apps using these new adaptive widgets and design patterns, and most new apps are adaptive from day one.

But that's just the beginning: GTK4 is finally out, and apps are starting to move to it. This transition unlocks a whole new world of gestures, animations, and layouts that were not possible before.

In this talk I'll sum up the current state of adaptive GNOME apps, demo some of the most exciting new stuff, and talk about what's in store for the future.



Author(s) Bio

Tobias is an Italian interaction designer based in Berlin. He works for Purism on making GNOME adaptive for the Librem 5 phone. Other recent projects include the GNOME Shell 40 refresh, the new app icon guidelines, and design tooling. He's a fan of coherent spatial models and ultrabold type.
Twitter and/or Mastodon Handle

@tbernard@mastodon.social
@tobias_bernard


Q&A


1. How is the system handling different DPI scaling? For example 1080p 24" vs 6" 720p one? (Identifying how "big" the UI should be)

Not sure I'm the right person to answer this, or how this is different from regular desktop HiDPI, but basically it's up to the device to have a reasonable resolution such that integer scaling gives you useful UI elements. Both Librem 5 and Phinephone have such a resolution, so they just do 2x scaling.

2. Some people don't like CSD because it may seem too large for them and that they have limited control over decorations applied to CSD. Could DWD (Dynamic Window Decorations) that was brought to the table 5 years ago be the solution to make everyone happy if it would be worked on this time around? 

Not sure how this is relevant to the talk? Also not my expertise, sorry :)

3. This makes me want to distro-hoop tonight
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=piE4JJ_BskI


