Title: Building the Linux Vendor Firmware Service: Forcing Hardware Vendors to care about Linux users
Publication date: 2021-05-30
Playlist: Linux App Summit 2021 Talks
Description: 
	The LVFS started as a side project running on a server under my stairs. In the last five years we’ve grown fwupd and the LVFS to the point where it’s a Linux Foundation project, listed on government purchase requirements and included on the CVs of people looking for jobs in the industry. Vendors now need to interact with the ecosystem we’ve built to get the Works With ChromeBook certification from Google, and Lenovo and Dell choose hardware partners based on how they work upstream with the LVFS and fwupd.

In the last 5 years we’ve built something that dozens of people are paid to work on and has provided more than 25 million firmware files to end users. We have used a few tricks over the years to convince vendors to “join the LVFS” and this talk will give lots of examples on how we grew the ecosystem from nothing into something that CTOs talk about over lunch.

I think a lot of the problems I’ve encountered building this project might be interesting to people trying to build a similar app ecosystem for Linux users.



Author(s) Bio

Richard has over 15 years of experience developing open source software.

He is the maintainer of fwupd, the LVFS, GNOME Software, AppStream-glib, PackageKit, gnome-packagekit, gnome-color-manager, colord, and UPower and also contributes to many other projects and opensource standards.

Richard graduated in 2007 from the University of Surrey with a Masters in Electronics Engineering. He now works as a principle engineer for Red Hat. Richard's outside interests include taking photos, eating good food and looking after his two daughters.



Twitter and/or Mastodon Handle

@hughsient


Q&A


1. How hard is to get into the firmware world without very little experience? When you graduate, how hard is to find a company that hires you and actually provides lectures to complete your knowledge about programming and all the ecosystem around firmware, hardware, etc?

2. How do you persuade companies to add their hardware firmwire to LVFS and is some companies easier to persuade then others as the GNU/Linux desktop market is just 2-3% ?

3. What are the most stubborn vendors that don't offer support or does the bare minimum to LVFS? Which ones are the best players?

4. Would you envision lvfs being used on more bespoke systems like cars and other iot devices using linux in general?
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tKHrNfSQvo8


