Title: Funding Krita
Publication date: 2021-05-30
Playlist: Linux App Summit 2021 Talks
Description: 
	We started funding development for Krita in 2010. Currently, nine people work full-time on Krita, the digital painting application. Over the years, we have tried different ways of funding Krita: donations, store sales, a development fund, contract work for companies like Intel and Blender Studio, sales of training materials and resource packs.

Currently, one person is funded through donations, the others through sales in the Windows Store and Steam. We are working to join the Epic Store. And we are working a new Development Fund website.

In this presentation we'll talk about Krita's funding history, and how well the different approaches have worked for us through the years, and what we would need to make the linux desktop community do their bit to support Krita's development.

Author(s) Bio

Halla Rempt started working on Krita in 2003. In 2004, she became the official maintainer of the project. She created the Krita Foundation specifically to fund development of Krita.


Q&A


 1. Does it help to be part of KDE? -- jriddell
 
 2. Are you considering adding a premium license for companies making big revenues? (I think it's similar to what Unity does with their tools, where if your games make more than a certain treshold you pay a license, if below it's free)
 
 3. Why Appimage? Flatpak is clearly the future :P
 
 4. Have you considered offering a subscription to access binaries (e.g. CentOS RPM repository, AppImages, etc.) along with other benefits?
 
 5. Some time ago there were plans to add payments in flathub, maybe a good idea to contact them to know the status of that effort?
 
 6. Will Krita team try make deals with governments to have Krita replace its proprietary counterparts in schools?
 
7. FYI you can take over the package on Flathub and have full control of it (and that's actually encouraged)

8. Are you coming to the arts BOF tomorrow?
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIvGH_fnVtI


