Title: Make your application multi-platform!
Publication date: 2021-05-30
Playlist: Linux App Summit 2021 Talks
Description: 
	Many people use Windows and macOS as their OS of choice. If we want to expose them to Open Source software, we have to bring the software to them. Some large projects, like GIMP and Inkscape, are available on those platforms.

What does it take to make your application available on Windows and macOS? Dan and Arjan, maintainers of Gaphor, did just this.

In this talk we dive in to what it takes to make your application available on all major desktop platforms. Why should you bother? How can you make it happen, and what does it bring to your project? Tune in and find out!
Author(s) Bio

Dan Yeaw is an engineer who helps design safety in to complex autonomous and electrified vehicles at Ford Motor Company. He is passionate about using Python and open source in engineering and he is a core contributor to the BeeWare project.

Arjan is a software engineer working for Xebia in The Netherlands. He's been involved in numerous projects ranging from financial systems to embedded applications. He's a long time GNOME user and core contributor to Gaphor.
Twitter and/or Mastodon Handle

Dan: @danyeaw,
Arjan: @ajmolenaar


Q&A


1. What about security within flatpaks?

2. Have you experimented to use flatpak on windows with WSL 2?

3. What are you missing most on flathub, from a developer perspective?

4. How's the build pipeline built? What software or services compose it? 

5. Did you consider using Qt or Qt Quick? What do you think are the alternatives to Gtk that are practical in your view?

6. Where do you keep your signing key for mac and  for windows? Is it on a build server? Or do you inject it into build task?

7. (Comment about Flathub) I (Georges - feaneron) also faced this issue of split repositories, and we're investigating a structured way to allow pushes from other repositories into Flathub. Mozilla does that with Firefox already! It's very early work, but it's promising :)

8. Do you plan or are you moving already to GTK4?

9. What desktop setups do you personally use for developing the app (OS, developer tools, etc.)?
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vLwAT-TLmZU


