Title: Kevin Ottens - Looking at the Application Developer Story - Akademy 2017
Publication date: 2017-11-20
Playlist: Akademy 2017
Description: 
	We love to get new contributors and for that we need top notch technology andWe love to get new contributors and for that we need top notch technology and a very welcoming community. In this talk we propose to look at our Application Developer Story and see what it says on how our technology and community perception.

After years organizing student projects it is time to admit it gets harder to attract them to KDE contribution. Our technology is nice but our applications are developed mostly like our frameworks which makes for a very steep learning curve for wannabe contributors.

Also, the expectations of the hobbyist developer or the student have changed radically in the past years. They are less keen to fiddle with build systems... which doesn't mean they wouldn't have anything interesting to contribute to our applications.

The aim of this talk is to kickstart the discussion in the community on how we could walk toward a unified application developer story. For that we will take a look at the different developer stories we present to potential application contributors and how they fare. We will look at other ecosystems solutions used to address similar issues. Armed with this knowledge, we will present the ideal application developer story we should strive for.

Finally, we will give a few ideas to improve the situation and will push the audience to share more experience and ideas to get closer to the ideal application developer story. a very welcoming community. In this talk we propose to look at our Application Developer Story and see what it says on how our technology and community perception.

After years organizing student projects it is time to admit it gets harder to attract them to KDE contribution. Our technology is nice but our applications are developed mostly like our frameworks which makes for a very steep learning curve for wannabe contributors.

Also, the expectations of the hobbyist developer or the student have changed radically in the past years. They are less keen to fiddle with build systems... which doesn't mean they wouldn't have anything interesting to contribute to our applications.

The aim of this talk is to kickstart the discussion in the community on how we could walk toward a unified application developer story. For that we will take a look at the different developer stories we present to potential application contributors and how they fare. We will look at other ecosystems solutions used to address similar issues. Armed with this knowledge, we will present the ideal application developer story we should strive for.

Finally, we will give a few ideas to improve the situation and will push the audience to share more experience and ideas to get closer to the ideal application developer story.

https://conf.kde.org/en/akademy2017/public/events/372
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KtSWSmM8YDg


