Title: Keynote: Cross Domain Cross Layer VPN Service Orchestration Panel
Publication date: 2018-09-27
Playlist: Open Networking Summit Europe 2018 - Amsterdam
Description: 
	Keynote: Cross Domain/Cross Layer VPN Service Orchestration - Fran Heeran, Head of Cloud & Automation, Vodafone Group; Dr. Feng Junlan, Chief Scientist, China Mobile & Bill Ren, Vice President, Network Industry & Ecosystem Development

About Dr. Junlan Feng
Junlan Feng, Chief Scientist at China Mobile，General Manager of AI and Intelligent Operation R&D Center.  Dr. Feng has led R&D of China Mobile on artificial intelligence and big data since September 2013. She had been the architect of IBM Big Data from January 2013.1 to August 2013 and a principal researcher at AT&T Labs Research from August 2001 to January 2013. Dr. Feng received her Ph.D. on Speech Recognition in 2001 from Chinese Academy of Sciences. She is an IEEE senior member, an IEEE speech and language committee member and IEEE industry committee member. She is a reviewer for major data mining, speech, and natural language international conferences and journals. She has chaired and organized multiple conferences in these fields. Dr. Feng has over 50 professional publications and has been granted 33 U.S and international patents.

About Fran Heeran
Fran Heeran is Head of Cloud & Automation at Vodafone Group. Fran is leading the strategy and architecture for the group-wide transformation to fully cloud enable Vodafone’s network, systems and applications.

Fran has over 20 years’ experience in the software industry and has held senior technology and business leadership roles in globally renowned organizations including Alcatel-Lucent,
Nokia and NEC. Fran has worked closely with some of the largest global service providers and has been a contributor to standards organisations and represents Vodafone on the board of the Linux Foundation Networking project.

Prior to Vodafone, Fran was the Senior Vice President and General Manager at Netcracker , a division of NEC corporation where he led the SDN/NFV business unit. Fran was also Senior Vice President and General Manager and Alcatel-Lucent (and subsequently Nokia) where he led the Communications and Collaboration business as well as the charging and policy business. Fran has also held senior business, technology and strategy positions at Aepona (acquired by Intel) and Valista where he was CTO and Senior Vice President of Product Management.

About Bill Ren
Bill Ren is responsible for the industry and ecosystem development in Huawei Product& Solution Strategy Department. After he joined Huawei in 2000, Mr. Ren was working in the network management area until 2003. From 2005-2006, he was the Product leader of the Huawei OSS product line. From 2006-2008, he was the head of OSS marketing of European region. From 2009-2013, Mr. Ren was the Vice president of the Fixe OSS product line in charge of marketing & strategy. From 2014 to 2016, Mr. Ren took the new role for the network solution and was in charge of the network BU global innovation project and the network solution portfolio management.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uk2pHVb-3Uw


