Title: Keynote: Opening Remarks and Networking Journey to CNFs - Arpit Joshipura & Dan Kohn
Publication date: 2018-09-25
Playlist: Open Networking Summit Europe 2018 - Amsterdam
Description: 
	Keynote: Opening Remarks and Networking Journey to CNFs - Cloud Native VNFs - Arpit Joshipura, General Manager of Networking, The Linux Foundation & Dan Kohn, Executive Director, Cloud Native Computing Foundation

About Arpit Joshipura
Arpit Joshipura brings over 25 years of networking expertise and vision to The Linux Foundation, with technical depth and business breadth. He has instrumented and led major industry disruptions across enterprises, carriers, and cloud architectures, including IP, broadband, optical, mobile, routing, switching, L4-7, cloud, disaggregation, SDN/NFV, and open networking, and has been an early evangelist for open source. Arpit has served as CMO/VP in startups and larger enterprises, including Prevoty, Dell/Force10, Ericsson/Redback, ONI/CIENA, and BNR/Nortel, leading strategy, product management, marketing, engineering, and technology standards functions. 

About Dan Kohn
Dan is Executive Director of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation, which sustains and integrates open source technologies like Kubernetes and Prometheus. He also helped create the Linux Foundation's Core Infrastructure Initiative as an industry-wide response to the security vulnerabilities demonstrated by Heartbleed.

He previously served as CTO of several startups, including Spreemo, a healthcare marketplace, and Shopbeam, a shoppable ads company. Earlier, he was a general partner at Skymoon Ventures, a seed-stage venture capital firm that created startups in semiconductors and telecom infrastructure.

Dan helped manage a number of telecoms firms controlled by Craig McCaw and started his career as founder and CEO of NetMarket, one of the first Internet companies. In 1994, he led the development of the first music store on the web, conducting the first secure commercial transaction after building the first web shopping cart.

When not traveling, Dan lives in Manhattan with his wife and two sons.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l6MkKnvkyro


