Title: Keynote: #Generation5G Powered by Automation - Emmanuel Lugagne Delpon
Publication date: 2018-09-25
Playlist: Open Networking Summit Europe 2018 - Amsterdam
Description: 
	Keynote: #Generation5G Powered by Automation - Emmanuel Lugagne Delpon, Chief Technology Officer, Orange Group Network

Orange started the on-demand journey with first commercial offers and a clear strategy to deploy network cloud infrastructure across the Orange footprint. The road towards network automation in the various Orange affiliates is on-going to offer a better customer experience (less manual errors with full automation).

Orange is very involved in Linux open source communities as a strong believer that open source solutions will be the foundation to deliver full automation required for the unpredictable services to be delivered on 5G networks.

This talk will detail how Orange envision 5G deployment using full automation and how the ecosystem must be organized to achieve such goal (VNF vendors to be aligned with ONAP, ONAP as the foundation for automation, Acumos for machine-learning and AI to be progressively used to handle complex events, more Orange involvement in open source communities..) 

About Emmanuel Lugagne Delpon
Emmanuel Lugagne Delpon is the CTO of Orange Group Networks, since 2017. He joined France Telecom R & D (now Orange Labs) in 1993 as Research Engineer in semiconductor devices and quantum optics activity.

In 1998 he joined the International Carrier Division and participated in the deployment of the International Backbone of Orange.

In 2003 he joined Orange Mobile and was in charge of the Value Added Services and BSS IT systems.

In 2014 he was appointed CIO of Orange Spain where he drove the deep transformation of IT.

Emmanuel Lugagne Delpon is graduated from Ecole Normale Superieure, Paris (France), from the Ecole Nationale des Telecommunications, Paris (France), and holds a Ph.D. in quantum physics.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiWonmb2ViE


