Title: Keynote: Panel Discussion - Leading ONAP
Publication date: 2018-09-27
Playlist: Open Networking Summit Europe 2018 - Amsterdam
Description: 
	Keynote: Panel Discussion - Leading ONAP - Helen Chen , Huawei; Lingli Deng, China Mobile; Xinhui Li, VMware; Catherine Lefèvre, AT&T; Alla Goldner; Amdocs & moderated by Heather Kirksey, The Linux Foundation

Being a woman in tech comes with some challenges but it also comes with all of the diversity, curiosity, and innovation of being anyone else within STEM.

In this extraordinary panel, we bring several leading ONAP women to talk about their view on technology (ONAP, AI, 5G, Edge computing) along with their view on women position in our industry, how we can increase women participation, what unique set of skills women bring - including some personal experiences and examples! 

About Helen Chen
Helen Chen is a Principal Architect in the Global Technical Service BU at Huawei and PTL of ONAP Integration project. She has years of experience in networking/SDN/NFV, cloud computing, Artificial Intelligence (AI) / Machine Learning (ML), Video / Multimedia/AR/VR/MR as well as bringing new innovations from whiteboard to product delivery at Huawei, Cisco, Sourceforge, etc. She also has 7+ years of experience in the open source community with projects like ONAP, OPEN-O, OpenDaylight, and OpenSocial. 

About Lingli Deng
Lingli Deng is a Senior Project Manager at China Mobile Research Institute. She obtained her Doctor’s degree in Computer Application Technology from the Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences and joined China Mobile in 2009. She is a core member of the Novonet project which drives SDN/NFV strategy for China Mobile, and has been working on evaluation and introduction of data plane acceleration technology, running the Novonet Testing Lab and planning the SDN/NFV trial network for the company. She was the Vice Chair of the OPNFV Board of directors between 2106-2017. She is currently representing the company at LFN TAC and serving as the ONAP TSC Vice Chair. 

About Alla Goldner
Amdocs, Director, Technology, Strategy & Standardization

About Heather Kirksey
Heather Kirksey works with the community to advance the adoption and implementation of open source NFV platforms.

Before joining The Linux Foundation, she led strategic technology alliances for MongoDB. Earlier in her career she held various leadership positions in the telecom industry, including running a partner program for CPE, doing solutions marketing for the IP division at Alcatel-Lucent, and working in business development and numerous standards activities.

About Catherine Lefèvre
Catherine Lefèvre is an AVP in AT&T’s Network Cloud & Infrastructure organization (AT&T Labs).
Located in Belgium, Catherine is responsible for the software delivery and scaling of the Rules-Based Process Automation Platform, the Service Provisioning Platform (Voice, D2 Network/Service Elements, etc.) and ECOMP (Application Controller, Policy Framework and Control Loop Automation) - the platform that powers AT&T’s software-centric network. She is also focusing on transforming BSS/OSS systems to Microservice Architecture and achieving data powered close loop automation. She is a member of the AT&T “Virtual Network Function” Governance Board and is co-leading the open sourcing of the ECOMP Platform (ONAP).

My complete Bio is available here:
https://wiki.onap.org/download/attachments/36966196/Bio_Catherine_Lefevre_2018.pdf?version=1&modificationDate=1532040585000&api=v2 

About Xinhui Li
Xinhui Li is currently serving as ONAP TSC member representing VMware. She has more than 10 years’ experience at Cloud Computing and is familiar at mainstream open source and commercial Cloud system evolvement. She is the PTL of Multi-Cloud project in ONAP community and tightly cooperating with different projects/groups to identify the scope/interfaces.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TyPmDJGSteA


