Title: Keynote: Re-defining the Competitive Landscape - Dr. Paul Doany, CEO, Türk Telekom
Publication date: 2018-09-27
Playlist: Open Networking Summit Europe 2018 - Amsterdam
Description: 
	Keynote: Re-defining the Competitive Landscape - Dr. Paul Doany, Chief Executive Officer, Türk Telekom

- How carriers should re-define the competitive landscape in order to survive against OTTs while already losing against them
- Are the cable operators dying towards the 5G era and the impact of open source orchestration and automation on the future systems
- What should vendors do together with carriers to step up, or what are the expectations of carriers from the vendors
- TT open source inventions

About Dr. Paul Doany
Upon his graduation from the Department of Electrical/Electronics Engineering, Beirut American University in 1977, Dr. Paul Doany, the CEO of Türk Telekom, went on to hold a master’s degree in Digital Electronics and Communications Engineering in Bradford University, UK in 1978 and a PhD in Communications Engineering from the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology in 1981.

Having served as a senior lecturer for the Department of Electronics/Communications in Beirut American University, Mr. Doany then took office as a consultant for the telecommunications business over the course of 14 years. As part of this task, he served as a General Manager for Dar Consultants (based in London) and founded Telecom department as a General Manager/Partner at Dar Al Handasah Consultants (Shair&Partners) and boosted the company to grow in transportation and finance.

Mr. Doany had served for the Saudi Oger Group for 12 years and taken office as the Founding CEO of Oger Telecommunications and the CEO of Türk Telekom for 5 years. During his tenure at the Saudi Oger Group, he led the acquisition of 55% share of Türk Telekom through privatization and the IPO to Istanbul Stock Exchange apart from the acquisition of IT companies and international wholesale operations (Pantel, rebranded as Türk Telekom International). In addition, he ran the acquisition and start-up operational process of Cell C in South Africa until it was launched.

Dr. Paul Doany has focused on the Venture Capital of Informatics and Communication Technologies and run start-up phase investments in IT/Internet companies and renewable energy.
Mr. Doany has been serving as the CEO of Türk Telekom since September 2016.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qcVhzHvOpKs


