Title: Keynote: The Path To Innovation is Open Source for Telecommunications Service Providers
Publication date: 2018-09-25
Playlist: Open Networking Summit Europe 2018 - Amsterdam
Description: 
	Keynote: The Path To Innovation is Open Source for Telecommunications Service Providers - Thomas Nadeau, Technical Director of NFV, Red Hat

 Disruption is the new normal as telecommunications service providers create the goods and services needed for the digital economy to thrive. Traditional carriers have a new breed of competitor: cloud-scale companies creating digital services and revenue streams, unencumbered by legacy “telco” infrastructure. Open source provides the opportunity to even the playing field.

Red Hat director of NFV engineering Thomas Nadeau will share insights learned from service providers around the world on how to best leverage upstream community innovation, a robust partner ecosystem and integration-ready solutions to transform and reinvigorate digital infrastructure to succeed in this new landscape. 

About Thomas Nadeau
Tom is Technical Director for NFV at Red Hat where he leads a team of some 25 engineers focusing on the area of Open Source Networking including SDN, NFV, data plane acceleration, Open Daylight, and container networking efforts. This also includes Red Hat’s Advanced Partner Engineering team who is responsible for advanced and innovative engagements with key Red Hat partners. Tom represents Red Hat at the Linux Foundation’s Networking Technical Steering Committee, as well as Red Hat’s representative for the new Akraino project. In addition, Tom works across Red Hat’s products and business to strengthen and sure up its networking technologies around these products by working on M&A, partner, and company strategy. Tom continues working as an Apache Committer and as co-Maintainer of The Public Yang Repository on GitHub.

Prior to Red Hat, Tom was a Distinguished Engineer at Brocade where he was The Chief Architect of Open Source in the Software Business Unit. Tom lead teams responsible for building commercial products based on open source, as well as contributions to upstream open source projects such as Open Daylight, OPNFV, and Open Stack. Tom is co-chair of the IETF NETMOD Working Group, which is responsible for the standardization of the Yang modeling language as well as Yang models.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xgg5yE04KIk


