Title: Build a reliable, efficient and easy-to-use service for Apache Spark at Uber's scale
Publication date: 2020-10-21
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Big Data (Track 2)
Description: 
	Build a reliable, efficient and easy-to-use service for Apache Spark at Uber's scale
Nan Zhu, Wei Han

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

As the global platform supporting 14+ million daily trips, Uber leverages huge amounts of data to power decisions like pricing, routing, etc. Spark is the backbone of large-scale batch computing at Uber. Nearly 250K+ Spark applications serve in scenarios like data ingestion, data cleaning/transformation, and machine learning model training/inference, etc. on a daily basis. Running Spark as a service at Uber’s scale faces many challenges. (a) reliability is the top priority for us while there are many factors that could cause outages and negative business impact. We build an end-to-end robust solution from job service to the Spark distro as well as the thoughtfully designed integrations with other components in data infrastructure. (b) centralized management of Spark applications is also crucial at Uber’s scale. In the past 2-3 years, the Spark ecosystem in Uber has been evolving from a partially managed situation to a service with full-fledged functionalities like monitoring, version management, etc. (c) Processing the massive volume of data in Uber raises challenges against the efficiency of Spark framework itself. We have developed optimizations for nested column pruning, parallel hive table committing implementation, etc. to significantly improve the Spark application performance. In this talk, we will walk through the aforementioned journey in Uber and share the experiences and lessons learned along the way. We hope that this talk can showcase how Apache software serves industry worldwide, help others who face similar challenges, and raise more discussions around the topic.

Nan Zhu:
Nan is Tech Lead of Spark team in Uber. He works on Spark service handling 100s of 1000s of Spark application every day in Uber, and the internal features which scales Spark to handle massive volume of data in Uber. He is also PMC member of XGBoost, one of the most popular machine learning library in both industry and academia.
Wei Han:
Wei Han is an Engineering Manager, leading a few teams in Uber’s data platform org, including Spark platform, Data security and Compliance, Privacy platform, and File Format(Apache Parquet)
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1CmWlZvmPF8


