Title: Project Optimum: Spark Performance at LinkedIn Scale
Publication date: 2020-10-21
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Big Data (Track 2)
Description: 
	Project Optimum: Spark Performance at LinkedIn Scale
Yuval Degani

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

A typical day for Spark at LinkedIn means running 35 million RAM-GB-hours, on top of 7 million CPU-core-hours of 20,000 unique applications. Maintaining predictable performance and SLAs, as-well-as optimizing performance across a complex infrastructure stack and a massive application base, all while keeping up with a 4x YoY workload growth is an immense challenge. Project Optimum addresses those needs by providing a set of performance analysis, reporting, profiling, and regression detection tools designed for a massive-scale production environment. It allows platform developers as-well-as application developers to detect even subtle regressions or improvements in application performance with a limited sample set, using a statistically-rigorous approach that can be automated and integrated into production monitoring systems. In this talk, we will cover how Project Optimum is used at LinkedIn to scale our Spark infrastructure while providing a reliable production environment. We will demonstrate its role as an ad-hoc performance debugging and profiling tool, an automatic regression detection tracking pipeline, and an elaborate reporting system geared towards providing users with insights about their jobs.

Yuval is a Staff Software Engineer at Linkedin, where he is focused on scaling and developing new features for Hadoop and Spark. Before that, Yuval was a Sr. Engineering Manager at Mellanox Technologies, leading a team working on introducing network acceleration technologies to Big Data and Machine Learning frameworks. Prior to his work in the Big Data and AI fields, Yuval was a developer, an architect, and later a team leader in the areas of low-level kernel development for cutting-edge high-performance network devices. Yuval holds a BSc in Computer Science from the Technion Institute of Technology, Israel.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D47CSeGpBd0


