Title: Stepping towards Bigdata on ARM
Publication date: 2020-10-21
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Big Data (Track 2)
Description: 
	Stepping towards Bigdata on ARM
Vinayakumar B, Liu Sheng

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

We find ARM processors in most devices around us always. ARM processors are mostly used today in small devices due to their power efficiency and reduced cost. But until few years back, ARM processors were found in only small devices. In recent years, since major OS providers are supporting ARM processors, ARM ecosystem is stepping into server class business as well. Now since major cloud providers started providing instances based on ARM, with far less price of-course, many businesses moving towards using ARM processors for the deployment. Major factors for considering the deployment environment for any business are Cost and Performance. ARM being cheaper (upto ~50%) than x86, reduces the overall cost of deployment and maintainance for horizontally scalable business deployments. So what about Bigdata workloads on ARM? Bigdata components are mostly scalable. They will benefit from this model as well, provided they support deployment on ARM. This talk, discusses about such initiative to support deployment and optimizations on ARM servers of Major bigdata components and reduce the total cost of deployment and management for the user. This includes contributions done in various apache projects like, Hadoop, Spark, Hive, HBase, Kudu, Impala, to support deployments on ARM nodes and optimizations for ARM processor. Finally, shows some benchmark results in ARM and x86 deployments.

Vinayakumar B:
Vinayakumar B, having vast experience with Hadoop for 10+ years. Focuses on improvements in and around Hadoop and Big-Data. Contributing to Hadoop community from 8+ years, and currently a Committer and member of Apache Hadoop PMC.
Liu Sheng:
LiuSheng, Focusing on promoting opensource projects in Big-Data components running on ARM platform. Contributed towards building ARM CI for Hadoop community and others. Currently working on ARM support for Kudu project
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5L617B7ScSs


