Title: Fault-Tolerant, Distributed, and Scalable Natural Language Processing with cTAKES
Publication date: 2020-10-14
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020
Description: 
	Fault-Tolerant, Distributed, and Scalable Natural Language Processing with cTAKES
Jeritt Thayer, Jeffrey Miller

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Electronic health records contain a substantial amount of clinical information as unstructured free text. This information has the potential to enhance clinical decision making as well as provide insight for secondary health related research. Apache Clinical Text Analysis and Knowledge Extraction System (cTAKES) is a health specific natural language processing (NLP) system that has demonstrated success in the health care industry. However, analyzing large sets of notes with cTAKES can take months or even years to complete. By combining cTAKES with Apache Spark, we developed a fault-tolerant and scalable NLP pipeline that respects the single threaded limitation inherent in cTAKES pipelines. It is capable of processing millions of clinical notes in minutes on a large computing cluster. We have also configured the pipeline to make it easy to adjust common settings like changing negation detection algorithms and toggling whether or not to detect entities over discontinuous spans. At the completion of this session, you will have a practical example of processing large volumes of unstructured text using cTAKES and be able to identify the benefits of using different Apache distributed computing frameworks such as Spark and Beam.

Jeritt Thayer
Jeritt Thayer is a software engineer at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. His work focuses on designing, developing, and evaluating novel systems to support patient engagement, medical decision making, and care delivery. Prior to his career in software, Jeritt was a professional soccer player. Jeritt is passionate about developing applications that support asynchronous and non-colocated communication to improve provider coordination and patient outcomes.

Jeff Miller:
Jeff Miller leads a team of data scientists at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP). His work focuses on developing tools to help researchers analyze clinical data. Jeff holds a master's degree in applied statistics from Penn State University.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kZw42pGzyHs


