Title: Solving IoT and Edge connectivity with Apache projects
Publication date: 2020-10-15
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020
Description: 
	Solving IoT and Edge connectivity with Apache projects
Dejan Bosanac, Hugo Guerrero

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

IoT and Edge solutions are all about connecting distributed systems together. But different use cases need different kinds of communication technologies. Luckily, Apache Software Foundation hosts multiple projects in this domain that can solve even the most challenging problems. Bonus point? They work great together as well, providing a great foundation layer for all your needs. In this session we'll discuss common communication patterns and where they fit IoT and Edge solutions. We'll dig into the Apache projects that enable them, such as Kafka, Qpid dispatch router and ActiveMQ. We'll discuss the differences and show where different approaches make the most sense. Finally, we'll explore how these projects can work together and provide a foundation layer for a wider ecosystem targeting specifically IoT and Edge use cases. We'll give a brief architecture of Eclipse Hono, EnMasse, Strimzi and Skupper projects. All based on Apache technologies. We'll see their benefits and place in the wider cloud IoT and Edge ecosystems.

Dejan Bosanac:
Dejan Bosanac is an engineer at Red Hat with broad expertise in messaging and integration technologies. He’s been an active member of open source communities for many years and a contributor to various projects. His latest interests revolve around open source IoT cloud and Edge computing solutions.

Hugo Guerrero:
Hugo Guerrero works at Red Hat as an APIs and messaging developer advocate. In this role, he helps the marketing team with technical overview and support to create, edit, and curate product content shared with the community through webinars, conferences, and other activities. With more than 15 years of experience as a developer, consultant, architect, and software development manager, he also works on open source software with major private and federal public sector clients in Latin America.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9EM6fH-rs9g


