Title: How to help companies be the best open source participants possible
Publication date: 2020-10-23
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Community
Description: 
	How to help companies be the best open source participants possible
Stormy Peters

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Companies are participating more and more in open source. Projects that figure out how to work most effectively with companies will benefit the most while maintaining their autonomy. Come discuss and learn the best ways to include companies in your open source software plans. Learn how to leverage the resources companies can bring to a project while maintaining your project's governance model. Learn how to keep companies in the loop and still hear all the individual voices. Learn how to accept resources without sacrificing autonomy. The speaker is experienced in both running Open Source Programs Office for large companies as well as leading open source software non-profits. This unique perspective to both sides allows her to bring some novel suggestions. Many of us have experience working with open source software projects and companies. This presentation will be a mix of real examples and audience discussion.

Stormy Peters is Director of the Open Source Programs Office at Microsoft. She works with people and teams across Microsoft to help make sure Microsoft uses and contributes to open source software in a way that makes it possible for the world to achieve more through open source software. Stormy is passionate about open source software and educates companies and communities on how open source software is changing the software industry. She is a compelling speaker who engages her audiences during and after her presentations. She has given keynotes at 4,000+ person events such as OSCON, PyCon and LinuxConf Australia as well as talks to small groups. You can find videos of her talks online. Before joining Microsoft, Stormy held leadership positions in open source and developer roles at Red Hat where she was head of the Community Leads, the Cloud Foundry Foundation where she was VP of Developer Relations and Mozilla where she led Developer Relations. Previously, she served as executive director of the GNOME Foundation and at OpenLogic where she set up their OpenLogic Expert Community. Stormy graduated from Rice University with a B.A. in Computer Science.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7VBYt9Beq3Y


