Title: Serve, Lead, Succeed the Open (mindful) Way to Prevent Reverse Burnout in Boardrooms
Publication date: 2020-10-23
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Community
Description: 
	Serve, Lead, Succeed the Open (mindful) Way to Prevent/Reverse Burnout in Boardrooms
Prashant V. Joshi

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Open Source SW (OSS) community has been brilliant in bringing the leadership out of everyone to innovate, contribute and transform. Covid-19, has brought one more challenge to the OSS community.This unique experiential talk inspires and opens minds of new and seasoned OSS community members at large to become successful servant-leaders through self-care coping mechanisms to prevent and alleviate burnout in boardrooms, classrooms and home-rooms in the midst of this pandemic and beyond. Yes you can! === Description: This talk engages the audience with simple, practical, scientific, rational and original ideas. It uses open and mindfulness principles so that every mind opens up (body too!), and gets inspired towards self-transformation. Whether you are a seasoned OSS guru or a novice/curious aspirant, this talk is for you. Why? A closed mind is a dangerous thing that creates toxic leadership for oneself and others. “Misery loves company” is a saying we love to use. Data shows that Rudeness costs millions to companies. Burnout is officially a disease according to World Health Organization. Depression costs lives. In a 2019 World Happiness Report surveying 156 countries, Finland was #1 (home of some Open Source pioneers) while the US was #19. So what? Time to shift the paradigm. It is mid-2020 with a re-surging Covid-19 pandemic and it is about time to bring clarity to our vision (pun intended!) so “happiness loves company too” - becomes a new phrase to live by. “Rudeness is expensive, civility is NOT” is another line to live by too. Well, how, you ask? Through a short presentation filled with scientific data, we will define the science of leadership, outline unique attributes of servant leadership, and give examples of the same. We will end with a mindful experiential component to have fun and begin the science of self-transformation. Yes, we can transform the OSS community together with better (open=mindful) leaders, awesome innovation, funding, and quality of life for all. Thank you

Prashant V. Joshi M.A. M. Phil, E-RYT 500, C-IAYT, YACEP (public speaker, published author) is an electrical engineer and a computer scientist. He is an outcome-focused management & technology executive, open source evangelist/alliances-builder, educator, master coach/therapist and a social entrepreneur with over 30 years in the US with many global for-profit and non-profit initiatives. His mantra for success is Grow PBT (People, Business, Technology). Presently he is an executive advisor for an early-stage startup (Sukhi Inc) in 'culturally aware mental wellness'. He is also a Global Ambassador to a non-profit institution in India (one of the oldest Yoga Therapy Research/Rehab Center) for raising funds for expanding a rehab/research center for cancer and other life-style diseases. Most recently he was the Vice President of Global Alliances for MariaDB Foundation, an open source project founded by Monty Widenius (creator of MYSQL). Over the past 5 years Prashant has advised many early and mature startups with his big brand and PBT acumen. Prashant is a co-founder of Gurukul, LLC, A Science of Living Institution serving global communities with evidence-based yoga/holistic healing which is in its 20th year. In 2016 he co-founded Food Yogini for advocating eco-friendly foods and goods. He has brought unique leadership coaching, Yoga/wellness into boardrooms, classrooms and home-rooms over the past 25+ years in NYC, NJ, TX and globally. He is a published author and a motivational public speaker. He lives in Austin, TX with his wife Manju, daughters Veda and Illa. He loves sports and travel and one of his tag-lines is Billions Yet To Be Served... Education: EE w honors from Bombay University and Double Masters in Computer Science from CUNY Wellness Certifications: E-RYT 500 (experienced registered Yoga teacher w over 10,000 hours of teaching), C-IAYT (certified International Yoga Therapist (w over 5,000 hours of therapeutic practice), YACEP (Yoga Alliance Continuing Education Provider)
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYhs5i6nuW0


