Title: The Apache Way: Practical Open Source Project Management
Publication date: 2020-10-23
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Community
Description: 
	The Apache Way: Practical Open Source Project Management
Shane Curcuru

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

The Apache Way is useful for organizations and individuals to be more effective at working in distributed communities. Open source software does not necessarily mean open development - and true community-led open development is where the fun starts in working in FOSS! There are a lot more aspects to consider and areas to invest in as you move forward through the open source journey. These are just the starting points to work on. A key reminder: open source works best when you're working with softare that you actually use. Taking the time to choose which teams or projects that you open up or participate is well worth the investment to keep your team's efforts focused. Come learn the behaviors you can use to succeed at Apache!

Shane is founder of Punderthings℠ LLC consultancy, helping organizations find better ways to engage with the critical open source projects that power modern technology and business. He blogs and tweets about open source governance and trademark issues, and has spoken at major technology conferences like ApacheCon, OSCON, All Things Open, Community Leadership Summit, and Ignite. Shane is serving a seventh term as an elected Director of the ASF, providing governance oversight, community mentoring, and fiscal review for all Apache projects. Previously, shane served as VP Brand Management for the ASF for eight years, and wrote the trademark and branding policies that cover all 200+ Apache® projects, including assisting projects with defining and policing their trademarks, as well as negoitating agreements with various software vendors using Apache software brands. Otherwise, Shane is: a father and husband, a BMW driver and punny guy. Oh, and we have cats. Follow @ShaneCurcuru and read about open source communities and see his FOSS Foundation directory: http://ChooseAFoundation.com/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rI-4CpV6lP4


