Title: Welcoming community strengthens the Apache Way
Publication date: 2020-10-23
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Community
Description: 
	Welcoming community strengthens the Apache Way
Jarek Potiuk

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

This talk is about making the Apache Airflow a more welcoming community, by applying more of the principles that are the core of Apache Way. This is the story of the changes that we implemented over the last few years as a group of committers and PMCs in Apache Airflow. When our team started to contribute to Apache Airflow, we realized how hard it was to start contributing to the project at the very beginning. While we became few of the most active community members (committers and PMCs) of Apache Airflow, we learned our ropes, but we have not forgotten that others have similar problems and from the very beginning we started to work on making it easier to become the member of the community on many levels. We started from improving the development environment, going through documentation improvements, implementing some best coding practices and CI automation around it, and ending at mentoring and communication guidelines. We would like to share with the other Apache projects some tips and learning on what you can apply to be a more welcoming project. This talk will be half-deep-down technical and half-soft-skills, talking about how both sides are needed in order to be more welcoming. There is a "Success at Apache" blog and Feathercast video about this subject - now is the time to tell some more details in a talk.

After more than 20 years of career in IT from a junior programmer to CTO of 60+ company, Jarek has chosen to continue his path as individual contributor. He got back from the half-technical, half-managerial path he has been following since, and with the vast experience in both technologies and business side of IT, as well as being organizer of 500+ attendees IT conference, Jarek's engineering skills are supplemented by an understanding of people, business, customers and partners, and with the strong understanding that relationships with people are the key to success in either of the roles. Jarek worked in many roles and many types of companies and he tried it all - from few people mobile payment startup, robotics + AI startup where he was a robotics engineer, working at software house as an engineer and Head of Technology, building and leading 60+ software house, Centre of Expertise expert at one of the biggest FMCG companies, and being Tech Lead Manager at Google, and currently - became one of the most active full-time committers and PMC members of one of the most popular Open-Source Workflow Orchestrator for Big Data - Apache Airflow. Jarek is an experienced technical team leader. Loves leading and motivating professional teams of developers, testers, IT admins, project managers, but only if he can actively participate in all of the things his people do. Patient mentor. Focused on achieving realistic deliverables with quality matching the expectations. Balancing well research and pragmatic approach, with a strong flair for innovations. Jarek likes to use his voice and for a good reason.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZjDD7bmwejg


