Title: openSUSE Virtual Conference 2021 - "Public Money? Public Code!"
Publication date: 2021-06-19
Playlist: openSUSE Virtual Conference 2021
Description: 
	https://media.ccc.de/v/3470-public-money-public-code

A campaign framework to promote software freedom

Do you want to promote Free Software in public administrations? Then the campaign framework of "Public Money? Public Code!" might be the right choice for you; no matter if you want to do it as an individual or as a group; if you have a small or large time budget. 

More than 200 organisations, and more than 29,000 individuals demand that publicly financed software should be made publicly available under Free Software licenses. Together we contacted politicians, decision makers,  and civil servants on all levels -- from the European Union and national governments, to city mayors and the heads of public libraries about this demand. This did not just lead to important discussions about software freedom with decision makers, but also already to specific policy changes. Already, we have administrations from Spain, Sweden and Germany supporting “Public Money? Public Code!”.

In the talk, I will explain how the campaign framework can be used to push for the adoption of Free Software friendly policies in your area; be it your public administration, your library, your university, your city, your region, or your country.

Do you want to promote Free Software in public administrations? Then the campaign framework of "Public Money? Public Code!" might be the right choice for you; no matter if you want to do it as an individual or as a group; if you have a small or large time budget. 

More than 200 organisations, and more than 29,000 individuals demand that publicly financed software should be made publicly available under Free Software licenses. Together we contacted politicians, decision makers,  and civil servants on all levels -- from the European Union and national governments, to city mayors and the heads of public libraries about this demand. This did not just lead to important discussions about software freedom with decision makers, but also already to specific policy changes. Already, we have administrations from Spain, Sweden and Germany supporting “Public Money? Public Code!”.

In the talk, I will explain how the campaign framework can be used to push for the adoption of Free Software friendly policies in your area; be it your public administration, your library, your university, your city, your region, or your country.

bonnie
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fIMPCfP5SGw


