Title: CppCon 2017: J. McNellis, J. Mola, K. Sykes “Time Travel Debugging...”
Publication date: 2017-10-06
Playlist: CppCon 2017
Description: 
	Time Travel Debugging: Root Causing Bugs in Commercial Scale Software

http://CppCon.org
—
Presentation Slides, PDFs, Source Code and other presenter materials are available at: https://github.com/CppCon/CppCon2017
—
We’ve all heard horror stories about bugs that were near-impossible to root-cause, and many of us have at least a few stories of our own. Corrupted or uninitialized memory. Resource leaks. API misuse and race conditions. Occasional and inconsistent crashes where all you have to go on are a series of unhelpful crash dumps. These kinds of problems are often time-consuming and tedious to debug, and can be both draining and infuriating.

Time Travel Debugging (TTD) is a reverse debugging toolkit for Windows that makes debugging these kinds of problems far easier, in both small programs and commercial-scale software like Windows and Office.  It's been an invaluable debugging tool for software developers and escalation engineers within Microsoft for many years.  We’ve spent the last couple of years improving performance, scalability, and usability, and are excited to finally be able to release a public preview of Time Travel Debugging.

In this interactive and hands-on session, we'll show you how to download and make use of our first public preview of Time Travel Debugging, demonstrate how to use TTD, and walk through the root cause analysis of some typically difficult-to-solve bugs like memory corruption, API misuse, and race conditions.
— 
James McNellis: Microsoft, Senior Software Engineer

James is a senior engineer on the Windows Debugger team at Microsoft, where he works on the Time Travel Debugging (TTD) reverse debugging toolkit. Prior to joining the Debuggers team in 2016, he was a member of the Visual C++ team, where he was responsible for the Microsoft C Runtime (CRT) and C Standard Library implementation. Passionate about all things related to C++, he is a frequent speaker at C++ conferences around the world and is a former top contributor on StackOverflow. He can be found on Twitter at @JamesMcNellis.

Jordi Mola: Mircosoft Corp., Principal Software Eng Lead

Jordi is a Principal Software Engineer Lead at Microsoft Corporation that has a passion for engineering productivity and efficiency. Except for a couple of years working on the Windows 8 copy UI, Jordi has spent his entire Microsoft career working on productivity tools, many of which are still internal to Microsoft. One of Jordi’s goals when he joined the debugger team a few years ago was to simplify the debugging of C / C++ and several of the tough problems that come with systems level programming. That simplifying goal has been a key driver for Jordi to lead and architect the Time Travel Debugging space within Microsoft over the last few years.

Ken Sykes: Microsoft, Principal Software Development Engineer

Ken is a Principal Software Developer at Microsoft Corporation and has worked on every consumer version of Windows since Windows 3.0. He recently joined the Windows Debugger team to help developers everywhere become more productive and maybe even make debugging a little bit fun! The C++11 standard finally convinced Ken that C++ was good for more than implementing COM classes and started a journey into TMP, compile-time polymorphism and CppCon conferences.
—
Videos Filmed & Edited by Bash Films: http://www.BashFilms.com
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l1YJTg_A914


