Title: Fineract in 2030
Publication date: 2020-10-17
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Fineract
Description: 
	Fineract in 2030
Javier Borkenztain, Saransh Sharma, David Yahalomi, James Dailey, Gabriele Columbro
In this panel, we will discuss the future of our community and product.

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/


Javier Borkenztain:
Javier is a serial entrepreneur with more than twenty years of experience working with technology in several industries and more than a decade in the financial industry. He is co-Founder and CEO of Fiter. Javier was involved with the Apache Fineract and Mifos X communities since 2014, and he had several roles within The Mifos Initiative. He was the Founder and CEO of the first Latin American startup granted with a banking grade license from a Central Bank. Javier holds a title of Industrial and Mechanical Engineer from the Universidad de la República del Uruguay, MBA from the IEEM, Universidad de Montevideo.

Saransh Sharma:
Researcher at Muellners

David Yahalomi
David is the co-founder of Hypercore a new startup that provides non-banks a SaaS platform for credit issuing, and Articode, a software development company that specializes in financial and real-time GIS systems development and deployment. David has worked for the first digital bank in Israel - Pepper - as an R&D team leader and after seeing the legacy systems used by the current banks, has decided to join the Fineract community after falling for the idea of open-source core financial system. David and his team have developed Fineract as a service, a free service that provides easy provisioning of a Fineract tenant for developers and startups looking to build on or experiment with Fineract and Mifos X.

James Dailey
James Dailey is the Board Chair and founder of Mifos, the open source community that created and then contributed the fineract code base. He works at the intersection of financial inclusion and energy inclusion in the global south. A serial entrepreneur, James has created several social ventures and open source projects, aimed at solving big hairy problems. He sits on the fineract PMC and helps with identifying gaps and strategies.

Gabriele Columbro
Gabriele is an open source executive and technologist at heart. He spent over 15 years building developer ecosystems to deliver value through open source across Europe and the US. He thrives on driving innovation both contributing to open source communities and joining commercial open source ventures, whether it’s for an early stage tech startup, a Fortune 500 firm or a non profit foundation. Previously Director of Product Management at Alfresco, as Executive Director Gabriele grew the Fintech Open Source Foundation FINOS from the ground up, with the vision of creating a trusted arena for the global financial services industry to innovate faster, leveraging open source as a model of collaboration. Gabriele holds a Master in Computer Engineering, is a Committer for the Apache Software Foundation and advises open source startups. He’s a passionate soccer fan, reggae music connoisseur and special needs dad and advocate wannabe.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQsztHucs-8


