Title: Fintech, the most disruptive technology of the Century.
Publication date: 2020-10-17
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Fineract
Description: 
	Fintech, the most disruptive technology of the Century.
Maria Luisa Martinez

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

The 4th Industrial Revolution, technology has made us jump light-years in terms of well-being, human capacity, knowledge, equality, and social inclusion. The change has been so big, so profound and so fast, that not everybody has been available to experience it, and not every industry could be adaptable and innovative enough to survive this change. The power of Technology used for good, and all the benefits it can provide, has not only changed our ways of living, but also our ways of thinking, bringing financial inclusion (a key pillar in social inclusion) to places never think of thanks to mobile and electronic money. Technology and innovation applied to Finance with Financial Inclusion as its mission and vision, took out of poverty millions of people; giving them access not only to financial services, but also to education, safety and equality. In addition, half of the world’s population is under 30: all background people born and raced in the eye of the storm. A generation that knows and wants to change the world, that claims for more rights, benefits and comfort. A generation becoming, if not already become, the economic machine to move our financial and banking system. A System with more than 200 years, reluctant to adapt this new Era, will have what it takes to provide ethical, innovative, equally, useful, and human centered financial services? Fintechs have already started and succeeding.

I’m a young, committed woman, always caring for others, and thinking of the next steps on how to solve financial inclusion problems. I am the Vice President of Market Entry at Kuelap, Inc. In where my team calls me ‘a force of nature’, since I am convinced that as part of my generation everybody should be a change agent, improving the state of the world, and doing the little things today that will have an incredible impact tomorrow. I am a problem-solution driven person. Always searching for a way to improve and find a solution to any given problem. I am highly committed to Social Inclusion, and work to fulfill that vision bringing Financial Inclusion to people all over the world. Before Kuelap, I worked at the Mifos Initiative; where I was the Account Manager. The Mifos Initiative is a non-profit open-source and free software project, with a presence in 37 countries, with more than 500 Finance Institutions using the software and reaching over 6 million final users. I have worked for and committed to projects that promote Social Inclusion as a volunteer for the past decade. As a former Law student, I was involved in projects that included the coordination of legal assistance of the largest free clinic of Uruguay; project deployed by the Student’s Centre of Law School at the Universidad de la República. Since 2013, I am a Global Shaper, an initiative of the World Economic Forum, which gathers young leaders to create a high impact on social projects. In 2014, I decided to bring my experience, knowledge, and enthusiasm on Social Inclusion to my professional life and started to work on Financial Inclusion, as a key pillar to overcome poverty around the world. In that regard, I co-founded $ERO, an Electronic Bank for the Base of the Pyramid in Uruguay, which was the first Latin-America startup in obtaining a Central Bank’s banking license.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tv2a-MG8ui4


