Title: OpenG2P: Open Source Building Blocks for Digitizing Large Scale Cash Transfers
Publication date: 2020-10-17
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Fineract
Description: 
	📅Thursday, October 1, 2020, 2:15 PM EDT
OpenG2P: Open Source Building Blocks for Digitizing Large Scale Cash Transfers
A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Salton Massally, Keyzom Massally, Steve Conrad, James Dailey, Ed Cable
The global COVID-19 pandemic has unleashed an unprecedented period of economic turmoil and instability that governments will have to overcome. Those in the informal economy are impacted the most and governments must be able to effectively mobilize large scale cash transfer programs to help them survive. Emerging from the government of Sierra Leone, based on their experiences digitizing payments to healthcare workers during the Ebola crisis, OpenG2P is a framework, community of practice, and set of open source building blocks to address the common pervasive challenges making it difficult to scale government to person payments. Fineract acts as the of the key building blocks managing wallets, accounts, and stores of value for individuals. This panel will explore the full open source stack for Open G2P and lessons learned in implementing large scale cash transfer programs.

Salton is a believer in the transformative impact of technology. He is experienced in building and scaling tech-based solutions to expanding access to much-needed information & services to the un(der)served, across Africa. Focused on Digital Financial Services (DFS) & Financial Technologies as a driver for Financial Inclusion, his competencies include Financial Inclusion Thought Leadership, Product Development and Delivery and Software Engineering: At 23, he founded iDT Labs, https://idtlabs.xyz, known for its expertise in developing & applying practical and sustainable technology to key sectors such as finance, agriculture, justice, & health through effective leadership, team-building, project planning, and delivery, fundraising, and multilateral stakeholder management. During the height of West Africa's 2014 Ebola crisis, he led the technology component of the Ebola response, implementing an innovative program that combined technology, inclusive finance, public health, and responsive governance. We broke new grounds in the use of mobile wallets, cloud computing, and open source technology to deliver scale, efficiency and achieve transparency of payments in crisis, playing a critical role in preventing the collapse of the Ebola response and recovery efforts, and the health sector as a whole in Sierra Leone. In recognition, iDT Labs was awarded the 2016 UPS International Disaster Relief Award, and Salton, the 2017 Queen's Young Leader Award.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eMqYINj3TpU


