Title: To Infinity and Beyond: Scaling Fineract for the Enterprise.
Publication date: 2020-10-17
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Fineract
Description: 
	To Infinity and Beyond: Scaling Fineract for the Enterprise.
Avik Ganguly, Nayan Ambali, Ed Cable, Istvan Molnar, Victor Romero

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

This panel discussion will showcase a number of institutions that have extended to Fineract to support different use cases at scale including lending, payments, wallets, and digital credit. They will discuss the platforms enhancements they made along with the DevOps strategies to help scale Fineract to reach millions. They will also explore the practical ways in which the community could achieve greater performance in the upstream Fineract codebase, the roadmap to achieve the same, and replicable tools the community can collaborate on to continually improve performance on both generations of Fineract.

Avik Ganguly:
Avik Ganguly is the founder of Fynarfin, a fintech company building scalable enterprise solutions on top of Apache Fineract. Avik is a Fintech specialist and open source evangelist who picked up his trade while working with Mifos, Conflux and Novopay.

Nayan Ambali:
Nayan is the Co-Founder and CEO of Finflux, a leading Mifos partner, whose cloud distribution built on top of the Fineract APIs is reaching more than several dozen financial institutions serving more than 3M clients and a portfolio greater than $2.5B USD.

Ed Cable:
Ed has been a part of the Mifos project since 2007 in its early days at Grameen Foundation. He oversaw the open source community, connecting its members worldwide with the tools, support, and engagement needed to build and use Mifos. Leading the growth of this burgeoning community, he saw the dedication and persistence of its members and decided to found COSM (now the Mifos Initiative) to unite their efforts and help them collectively fulfill the vision Grameen Foundation set out to achieve. Prior to this, he graduated from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania where he led marketing for the nation’s largest student-run credit union and discovered his passion for technology-driven international development in their budding social entrepreneurship program. When he’s not watching over the Mifos community, he’s tending to another community of sorts, his mini-farmhouse of animals – chickens, bunnies, dogs, goats, cats, birds, and fish.

Istvan Molnar:
Istvan is Partner and Architect for DPC Consulting, an enterprise Java consultancy from Budapest, Hungary that has decades of experience implementing banking and real-time payment solutions at scale. Istvan has led the deployment of Mifos and Fineract at a bank in Germany as well as banks in SE Asia. Building off of the experience implementing real-time payment systems for Singapore and Hungary, Istvan has lead the design and architecture of Payment Hub EE, a powerful bridge and microservices workflow orchestration tool spearheaded by the Mifos Initiative, for integrating Fineract with real-time payment systems like Mojaloop.

Victor Romero:
Victor is a professional with more than 20 years of experience in the Information Technology sector, throughout which he has consolidated knowledge and forged technical and administrative skills focused on providing solutions, meeting national and international quality standards, focused mainly on the Financial sector. He has participated in Development, Operations, Management and Control areas, the experience in these areas gives him a broad vision to take strategic decisions that enhance the social and business objectives promoted by technology demanded by financial institutions, always acting with a high sense of professional ethical values. He co-founder of Fintecheando where we have been working with the Mifos Initiative using Fineract 1.x/CN for providing digital solutions for the Mexican financial institution which serve the population at an enterprise level.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F8WGKkwRhrU


