Title: DrupalCon Baltimore 2017: Creating a Culture of Engagement: The ROI of Transparency
Publication date: 2017-04-26
Playlist: DrupalCon Baltimore 2017
Description: 
	In the last few years, “Engagement” has replaced “Wellness” as the catch-all employee retention buzzword. But what is engagement, exactly? It’s more than just building a killer physical workspace that employees want to perform their work in day to day - it’s building a cultural rapport of give and take; one where employees feel they can add to and be an active part of a brand's forward momentum.

Disengaged employees make up a startling 71% of the workforce in the US - those employees leave havoc in their wake, through negativity, decreased output, and absenteeism. Many employers believe that parting ways with difficult employees will improve their workforce, but the unfortunate reality is that the discontent moves with the departing employee, and can tarnish a company’s reputation with potential talent, and within their industry.

So, given the challenges of building and retaining a staff filled with top talent, what is a company to do? It’s crucial to create a culture of communication and accountability from the top-down. To champion and foster a value-based business, empowering senior leadership to set strategic and cultural goals, and encourage employees to communicate and take action to help meet those goals openly.

Join us to learn top-down strategies for fostering a killer company culture, no matter the company model.

In this session you will learn:

What employee engagement looks like
How to hold employees accountable for goals and their outcomes
The importance of transparency
Ways to create business value through culture
How to harness the talents of all personality types
Tactics to put ideas into action

*Gallup Management Journal's semi-annual Employment Engagement Index


About Anne:
Anne Stefanyk is Founder and CEO of Kanopi Studios, a distributed North American website strategy, design and development company specializing in Drupal, WordPress and Ruby on Rails. Kanopi Studios employs 24 full timers, many who have been with Kanopi since inception or at least three years. Together we are building a value driven open source business.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9gQ2ZWJ3wjA


