Title: DrupalCon Baltimore 2017: Development Workflow Tools for Open-Source PHP Libraries
Publication date: 2017-04-25
Playlist: DrupalCon Baltimore 2017
Description: 
	"Hey, I just had a great idea for a new module!  It's new and different and it's going to be GREAT!  So, let's see here, what do I need to do? Well, I've still got some Drupal 7 sites, so I'll need two versions of the module. Maybe I should put some of the code in a library, so I don't have to put the same exact code in the Drupal 8 version of the module. I guess that means I'll need to register my project with Packagist. I'd better make sure that the code has some tests; it sure would be good to know how much code coverage I'm getting, and whether the library is standards-compliant, and it would be nice to get some feedback if my classes and methods start to get too complicated. Since I'm making a library, it would be really rightous to provide some good documentation. It would be handy if I could throw in a phar, so that users could fiddle with the code from the command line. The cool kid's GitHub projects have these neat looking badges at the top of their README files; if my project looked cool like that, maybe more people would submit pull requests. Maybe I should tell people how to contribute and report issues. I guess I'd better sit down for a few days and build a fancy website for my library that pulls all of this together. This modularity thing is starting to sound hard; maybe I should just skip it."

Having a fine-tuned continuous integration environment is extremely valuable, even for small projects. Today, there is a wide variety of standalone projects and online Software-As-A-Service offerings that can super-streamline your everyday development tasks that can help you get your projects up and running like a pro. In this session, we'll look at how you can get the most out of:

GitHub source code repository
Packagist package manager for Composer
Travis CI continuous integration service
Coveralls code coverage service
Scrutinizer static analysis service
Box2 phar builder
Sami api documentation generator
ReadTheDocs online documentation reader service
Composer scripts and projects for running local tests and builds
After mastering these tools, you will be able to quickly set up a new php library project and use it in your Drupal modules.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WVmqiXrJnP0


