Title: All In: A Tortured Metaphor for Software Development - North West Ruby User Group - November 2018
Publication date: 2018-12-06
Playlist: North West Ruby User Group
Description: 
	Presented by Mark Kirschstein.

You don't need to know anything about poker to get value from this talk.

At its core, software development is rational logical. However, that core is smaller than most think. Knowing the rules of programming, language syntax and grammar etc, is only the first step. As soon as a project has more than one person working on it - or indeed using it - Human behaviour and statistical variance (the fancy term for 'luck') enter the equation.

At its core, poker is rational and logical, but knowing the rules of poker is only the first step towards playing it. Human behaviour must be taken into account to pick the best next move. Statistical variance means that the best move doesn't always win.

This is a non technical talk about managing software projects and teams. It includes examples and anecdotes of mishaps and misfortunes of both software and poker, examining the flawed logic that lead to the mistakes, and some suggestions how to correct that logic.

About the speaker.

Mark Kirschstein is an independent software developer and trainer living and working in Manchester. He doesn't play poker much anymore, because he learned enough about it to realise he's not very good at it. He's not learned enough about software yet.

-

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XEq6Ri4IS8c


