Title: Building a Remote Control Robot with Automotive Grade Linux - Leon Anavi, Konsulko Group
Publication date: 2017-10-24
Playlist: Open Source Summit Europe & Embedded Linux Conference Europe 2017
Description: 
	Building a Remote Control Robot with Automotive Grade Linux - Leon Anavi, Konsulko Group

Automotive Grade Linux (AGL) is a leading embedded Linux distribution for the automotive industry and soon it will debut on the 2018 Toyota Camry. Out of the box AGL offers reliable open source solutions for graphics, connectivity, security and software over the air updates. Could other industries benefit from these features?

In a quest to discover if AGL is suitable for Internet of Things (IoT) outside the automotive industry, this presentation will reveal a practical experiment of using AGL in robotics. Attendees will learn the exact steps for building a do it yourself (DIY) robot based on Raspberry Pi 3 with off-the-shelf components. The talk will provide guidelines for integration of additional software, sensors and other peripheral hardware device in a headless AGL profile.

About Leon Anavi
Leon Anavi is an open source enthusiast and a senior software engineer at Konsulko Group. He is an active contributor to Automotive Grade Linux (AGL), GENIVI Development Platform, Tizen as well as to a lot of other open source projects. His professional experience includes web and mobile application development for various platforms as well as porting embedded Linux distributions to Raspberry Pi and devices with i.MX6, Rockchip and Allwinner (aka sunxi) SoC. Leon holds a masters in Information Technology from the Technical University Sofia. He is the author of the Tizen Cookbook printed by Packt Publishing. His previous speaking experience includes talks about open source software during events in San Francisco, Portland (OR), Hong Kong, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Brussels, Berlin, Bratislava, Sofia and his hometown Plovdiv.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p8QlNYO77J4


