Title: Continuous Integration: Jenkins, libvirt and Real Hardware - Anna-Maria Gleixner & Manuel Traut
Publication date: 2017-10-24
Playlist: Open Source Summit Europe & Embedded Linux Conference Europe 2017
Description: 
	Continuous Integration: Jenkins, libvirt and Real Hardware - Anna-Maria Gleixner & Manuel Traut, Linutronix GmbH

Jenkins is a well established CI-System. It has excellent support for libvirt, but controlling real hardware in Jenkins can be tedious task and is not standardised.

The Jenkins based CI-RT system provides smoke tests for Real-Time Linux developers, which include compile, boot and latency regression tests, This requires control of real hardware. Instead of adding custom hardware controls to Jenkings the RTL team decided to standardise on libvirt and add a libvirt extension, which interfaces with R4D (Remote control For Device-under-test). R4D allows simple integration of remote power controls and serial device servers for console access. Libvirt/R4D makes controlling real hardware from Jenkins as simple as controlling a VM.

The talk explains the inner workings of libvirt/R4D and the integration in Jenkins with real world examples from the RTL (CI-RT) testsystem.

About Anna-Maria Gleixner
Anna-Maria is a Junior Engineer in the Real-Time Linux Team at Linutronix | GmbH. She holds a bachelor in Electrical Engineering and a Master degree in | Embedded Systems Engineering.

About Manuel Traut
Manuel works as Software Specialist at Linutronix GmbH since 2007. Over the years he gained experience in building Linux BSPs with different methods and toolkits. With this knowledge in mind he currently maintains the embedded linux build environment (ELBE http://elbe-rfs.org). ELBE reuses as much as possible from the Debian project. He regularly acts as Trainer for various embedded Linux topics (Yocto, Debian, Kernel Development, ..) and has given Linux related talks at RTLWS, LinuxTag and Chemnitzer Linuxtage and Embedded Linux Conference Europe.
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f4K8yOpyJ08


