Title: Keynote: Hacking is Child’s Play, Literally! - Reuben Paul, 11 Year Old Hacker, CyberShaolin Founder
Publication date: 2017-10-24
Playlist: Open Source Summit Europe & Embedded Linux Conference Europe 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: Hacking is Child’s Play, Literally! - Reuben Paul, 11 Year Old Hacker, CyberShaolin Founder and Cyber Security Ambassador 

IoT is a buzz word but what does that mean? Internet of Things or Internet of Toys or Internet of Threats. In this keynote, 11 year old, Reuben Paul aka The Cyber Ninja would discuss and demonstrate how smart things (or toys) does not necessarily mean secure things. 
He will share his experience, playing with and hacking toys and cover tools (sniffers, packet analyzers, Raspberry Pi, python scripts) that could make connected systems creepy. With demonstration, he will highlight the insecurities in smart technologies and discuss the application of these technologies in the real world (drones, autonomous cars, etc.), and share why it is important to understand these threats that can not only impact things in a game room, but real things that we use daily as well.
Come for a fun-filled, entertaining, and educational talk to find out how the hacking game is not limited just to the game room, and learn about why Hacking is Child’s play, literally!

About Reuben Paul
Reuben is a 11 year old from Pflugerville, TX. When asked by his 1st grade teacher to illustrate his future career, he drew on a sheet that he wanted to become a Cyber Spy. But, Reuben is not just another computer geek. He lives a life on the edge, between his school, as a straight ‘A’ student and all of his other passions. When he is not playing video games or on the computer, he likes to read, and takes classes to play inline hockey, swim, do gymnastics, Shaolin Do KungFu, play piano, drums and do art. Reuben is an invited speaker, delivering awareness talks and keynotes on the importance of teaching CyberSecurity to kids and adults. He has been featured at several industry leading Information Security conferences. His keynote talks on “Creating a Safe and Secure Cyber World for Kids (by a kid)”, “Developing r00t-kidz: The Future of Cybersecurity”, “InfoSec from the mouth of babes (or an 8 year old)”, and "Mutually symb-IoT-ic Security" have been quoted and referenced by several information security sources and news agencies that call him a “Child Hacker". They have become a source of inspiration to kids and adults alike to start teaching CyberSecurity to kids.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W3jIuGLFrO4


