Title: Apache Geospatial: Open Source and Open Standards
Publication date: 2020-10-22
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Geospatial
Description: 
	Apache Geospatial: Open Source and Open Standards
George Percivall

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

The Apache Geospatial Track provides the latest in applying Apache Projects to geospatial data and processing. Beginning in 2016, the geospatial track has provided a venue for geospatial applications using open source from Apache and other open source foundations. The Geospatial Track includes a focus on the use of open standards to enable interoperability and code reuse between independent software developments. The Geospatial Track for ApacheCon 2020 will include projects from Apache Software Foundation as well as from LocationTech Technology ( http://locationtech.org) and the Open Source Geospatial Foundation (https://www.osgeo.org/). Open standards will be included from the Open Geospatial Consortium (http://www.ogc.org/). Open standards enables reuse of common elements for geospatial information and processing resulting in increased productivity, lower interoperability friction, and higher data quality. Standards for Coordinate Reference Systems (CRSs), spatial geometries and data arrays used for projects with geospatial content will be described based on open source projects and open standards. Emphasis is placed on the use of open standards including the emerging baseline of OGC APIs. OGC APIs are being defined for geospatial resources, e.g., maps, tiles, features, coverages. Developed using OpenAPI, the APIs can be implemented in a number of languages and patterns. The presentation will be describe the state of implementations and plans for standardization. The modular structure enables flexibility for developers to reuse OGC APIs in their APIs. If open source for geospatial is of interest to you, join the discussion on geospatial@apache.org.

George Percivall serves as CTO and Chief Engineer of the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC). As CTO he works with OGC members on strategic technology across OGC Programs and leads OGC Technology Forecasting. As Chief Engineer, the OGC Architecture Board. Prior to OGC, Mr. Percivall was Chief Engineer with Hughes Aircraft for NASA's Earth Observing System Data and Information System; Principal engineer for NASA's Digital Earth Office; he applied Systems Engineering on the General Motors’ EV1 program and a control system engineer on Hughes satellites. He holds a BS in Engineering Physics and an MSEE from the University of Illinois.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HcKTs_bkDFI


