Title: Visualize Apache SIS capabilities with raster data
Publication date: 2020-10-22
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Geospatial
Description: 
	Visualize Apache SIS capabilities with raster data
Martin Desruisseaux

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Apache SIS is a Java library for helping developers to create their own geospatial application. SIS follows closely international standards published jointly by the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). But the core standards implemented by SIS are abstracts, and their practical use are non-obvious for developers unfamiliar with OGC/ISO conceptual models. Recently a JavaFX application is being developed for showing Apache SIS in action. Its main purpose is still to provide building blocks that developers can use in their own applications, but the SIS application can also be used as-is for navigating in some raster data. Using that application, some ISO 19115 elements (the common metadata structure used by SIS for representing information stored in headers of various data formats) get a visual aspect. Some ISO 19111 concepts (the model for reference systems and operations) can be more easily explored. Jacobian matrices (a SIS feature) can been seen in action in the context of map projections. Apache SIS is an implementation of GeoAPI 3.0.1 interfaces, which are developed by OGC. Another GeoAPI implementation created during the year is a binding to PROJ 7 C++ API. We will show how GeoAPI allows the use of alternative implementation such as PROJ 7 in a Java application. GeoAPI interoperability with the Python language (work in progress) will also be demonstrated. Finally recent development of Apache SIS support of raster data (work in progress) will be presented, with an introduction to its API. The emphasis will be on Earth observation data.

Did a Ph.D thesis in oceanography, but have continuously developed tools for helping analysis work. Used C/C++ before to switch to Java in 1997. Develop geospatial libraries since that time, initially as a personal project then as a GeoTools contributor until 2008. Now contributing to Apache SIS since 2013. Attend to Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) meetings about twice per year in the hope to follow closely standard developments and improve Apache SIS conformance to those standards. Work in a small IT services company (Geomatys) specialized in development of geoportals. Geomatys is an OGC member and develop a stack of open source software for spatial applications, with Apache SIS as the foundation to which Geomatys contributes actively.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N4VoTmB_cKc


