Title: PromCon 2017: Prometheus Everything, Observing Kubernetes in the Cloud - Sneha Inguva
Publication date: 2017-09-01
Playlist: PromCon 2017
Description: 
	* Abstract:

As the industry moves towards a microservices architecture, many companies are embracing container orchestration solutions. DigitalOcean is no different. Over the course of the last year, DigitalOcean’s move towards a container orchestration solution based on Kubernetes has empowered service owners to quickly and efficiently deploy and update their applications. A vital component of this, however, is a white box monitoring and alerting solution based upon Prometheus and Alertmanager.

In this talk, you will hear of DigitalOcean’s in-cluster setup of Prometheus and Alertmanager that allows service owners to instrument their their own metrics and alerts. Listeners will hear about the architecture from both the service owner’s point of view as well as the internals that allow for the dynamic addition of alerts. I will highlight the successes of this approach - ease of use and avoiding alerting fatigue - as well as potential pitfalls and gotchas. And lastly, I will end with a discussion of future modifications.

Individuals looking to similarly leverage Prometheus and Alertmanager to monitor their own container orchestration platforms will be able to learn from our experiences at DigitalOcean and subsequently apply key lessons learned to their own alerting use cases.

* Speaker biography:

Sneha Inguva is an enthusiastic software engineer currently working on the observability team at Digital Ocean. She has worked at a variety of startups in the last few years and has a unique perspective of building and deploying software in eclectic verticals - education, 3d-printing, and casinos to name a few. When she isn’t bashing away on a project or reading about the latest emerging technology, she is busy molding the minds of young STEM enthusiasts in local NYC schools.

* Slides:

https://promcon.io/2017-munich/slides/prometheus-everything-observing-kubernetes-in-the-cloud.pdf

* PromCon website:

https://promcon.io/
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5P_A7KN7F6I


