Title: Liana Bakradze - Learn Python The Fun Way
Publication date: 2016-07-28
Playlist: EuroPython 2016
Description: 
	Liana Bakradze - Learn Python The Fun Way
[EuroPython 2016]
[18 July 2016]
[Bilbao, Euskadi, Spain]
(https://ep2016.europython.eu//conference/talks/learn-python-the-fun-way)

Programming is one of the most important 21st-century skills and tons
of different online and offline resources can help you to master it.

On the other hand, playing games is really effective way for us to
learn and it's also the most fun.

But is it possible to learn real programming language like Python by
playing a game?

In this talk I'll show you some projects that allow you to achieve
that. I also want to inspire you to help such projects and to suggest
ideas how to do that.

-----

Programming is one of the most important 21st-century skills. It
doesn't only provide promising career opportunities but teaches how to
reason logically, systematically and creatively.

Code readability, rich standard library, straightforward syntax and
other features make Python a great language for teaching beginners how
to program. Python community is very supportive and friendly to
newcomers and does awesome work to make Python available to everyone.
Tons of different online and offline resources can help you to master
Python programming. Problem solving is the classical way of learning
how to code. But it can be boring for some people, especially for
kids.

On the other hand, playing games is really effective way for us to
learn and it's also the most fun. You can find different games
designed to teach basics of programming, but most of them use special
visual environments and don't teach real text based languages.

But is it possible to learn programming language like Python by playing a game?

In this talk I'll show you a few projects for different age and levels
that allow you to achieve that. I'll pay attention on methods that are
used to teach programming.

I also want to inspire you to help such projects and to suggest ideas
how to do that.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_KkPcHKbE4I


