Title: Rachel Willmer - 20 years without a 'proper job'
Publication date: 2016-07-28
Playlist: EuroPython 2016
Description: 
	Rachel Willmer - 20 years without a 'proper job'
[EuroPython 2016]
[18 July 2016]
[Bilbao, Euskadi, Spain]
(https://ep2016.europython.eu//conference/talks/keynote-20-years-without-a-proper-job)

Have you ever wondered how you could be your own boss? or how you
could make money from your side project? or build the next Facebook or
Uber.

To be a coder in today's world of work is to have amazing
opportunities to design the business life you want.

I've enjoyed the last 20 years without a 'real job', as company
founder, freelancer and side-project-hacker.

Now I am bootstrapping my current company to profitability. Listen to
my stories and learn from my mistakes and successes.

-----

Have you ever wondered how you could be your own boss? If so, then
this talk is for you.

Maybe you're working on a sideproject and wonder how you could make
some money from it? Or maybe you have the idea for the next Facebook
or Uber?

To be a coder in today's world of work is to have amazing
opportunities to design the business life you want. You can work
remotely; you can write books, or teach, or consult, with anyone
anywhere.

You can have a crazy idea on Friday and have it running by Monday.
Design your architecture to use cloud computing, so your tiny team can
scale up your huge ideas.

Or keep it small, and just earn some extra money with a Wordpress
plugin, or a training course.

It has been 21 years since I last had a 'real job' and a regular income.

I survived creating and running a company through the madness of the
dotcom years.  I made money from sideprojects, that I had started just
for fun and for learning.  I have freelanced without needing to use an
agency to find the work.

And now I'm bootstrapping my current business to profitability. Listen
to my stories and learn from my mistakes and successes.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZNx6UIdLDLk


