Title: Víctor Terrón - Kung Fu at Dawn with Itertools
Publication date: 2016-07-28
Playlist: EuroPython 2016
Description: 
	Víctor Terrón - Kung Fu at Dawn with Itertools
[EuroPython 2016]
[18 July 2016]
[Bilbao, Euskadi, Spain]
(https://ep2016.europython.eu//conference/talks/kung-fu-at-dawn-with-itertools)

The itertools module is one of the cornerstones of advanced
programming in Python. This talk offers practical advice about
iterator algebra that can be put into practice immediately.
Discovering the itertools module means taking the veil from our eyes,
and once we use functions such as repeat(), takewhile(), dropwhile()
or product(), there is no return — it is impossible to come back to
the world of the mere mortals, where solutions are more complex and
need more memory.

-----

The itertools module is one of the cornerstones of advanced
programming in Python. Part of the standard library, it provides an
iterator algebra that allows us to elegantly chain abstractions,
enabling solutions that are both simpler and more memory efficient.

The goal of this talk is to offer practical advice and clear lessons
that can be immediately put into practice. Illustrating it with
numerous examples, attendees will leave having assimilated at least
several concepts that will improve their code undeniably and
irremediably. Emphasis will be on showing specific cases where a
traditional solution can be overhauled over and over with functions
from the itertools module.

Let’s say, for example, that we want to alternate indefinitely between
two values: -1 and 1. The novice would use a variable, updating its
value at each step, and the average user would maybe opt for an
endless generator. Both are worthy and honorable solutions, but they
pale before the mastery of the martial artist who only needs
itertools.cycle(). Because that is the nature of the itertools module:
once the veil falls from our eyes and we come across functions such as
repeat(), takewhile(), dropwhile() or product(), there is no return.
In this talk we will learn to identify when they can be used,
accomplishing with a single line of code what for the mere mortals
takes much more effort.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCrOGS1QlB8


