Title: DrupalCon New Orleans 2016: Live The Dream, Work Remote
Publication date: 2016-05-10
Playlist: DrupalCon New Orleans - May 2016
Description: 
	Facts:

Developers are the lifeline of the business.
Open source software development is hard.
It is unfortunately easy to take developer's work for granted.
Virtual. Remote. Distributed. This style of organization is becoming wildly more in demand and popular among many industries including web shops. However, building and sustaining a strong relationship requires a unique approach and making us of variety of tools to create the right work culture . In this session we will talk about common issues that lead to burnout and attrition. But most importantly we will talk about key tactics to keep your development (and all other staff) happy, inspired, creative, productive and most importantly, part of YOUR team.

What we will cover:

Company processes to build a great culture for distributed teams
Hiring practices to find the best remote talent
Communication tactics for a distributed team
Standard causes of burnout
Scheduling work with a team over multiple time-zones
Meeting client needs without sacrificing quality
What you will takeaway:

They key to creating a culture that empowers and attracts the best remote workers
Ability to meet client needs with a team distributed throughout the world
Knowledge to build out your current (or potential) distributed shop
About Anne:
Anne Stefanyk is Founder and CEO of Kanopi Studios, a North American website design and development company based on the West Coast specializing in Drupal, Wordpress and Ruby on Rails projects. Anne has been in the technology industry for over 11 years. Over the last six years growing Kanopi Studios, she has assembled an amazing team of developers, UX specialists, designers and project managers and built a large portfolio of diversified clients and projects.  When it comes to development, we do it all. Design, Development, Strategy, Support!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NUx7an4qGjg


