Title: DrupalCon New Orleans 2016: Government Security Frameworks: Where Do I Begin?
Publication date: 2016-05-10
Playlist: DrupalCon New Orleans - May 2016
Description: 
	1) Government Security Frameworks: Where Do I Begin?

SPEAKERS: JASON FORD

Experience Level: Beginner 

Development companies are becoming more involved in application building for the federal government, but are quickly finding themselves in a security nightmare.

The acronyms “FedRAMP” and “FISMA” are commonly interjected into every conference call you are on, causing you ask yourself, “How did I get here?” Well, you are not alone … Weaving your way through federal security frameworks for the first time can be extremely difficult and very frustrating.

In this session, we will discuss these complicated frameworks, and devise different ways to leverage compliant services for your application. We will also review various tools and techniques to apply against your application to meet these framework standards.

If you have asked any of the following questions, this session is for you:

How do compliance frameworks apply to my application?
What happens once my application is certified?
How can I reuse previous work to achieve compliance for other agencies?
This session provides you the basic knowledge of application compliance you will need to successfully navigate the world of government security.

2) Avoid Traffic Jams: The Impact of eCommerce Site Performance on Bottom-Line Results

SPEAKERS: DOUG GOLDBERG

Experience Level: Intermediate

Imagine a time when marketing is on its game, the flash sale is ready, 25,000 units have been acquired and 45,000 independent consultants are vying to get a massive reduction on price of a single item. With improper infrastructure and engineering this is a nightmare waiting to happen.  As a matter of fact, prior to coming to Platform.sh this nightmare turned into one companies reality.  Anger, frustration and stress for everyone involved month after month during every flash sale.  Once they moved to a custom engineered site at Platform.sh the nightmare magically disappeared:

“Today’s splurge was downright magical.  Thank you so much for working so hard to lessen the stress and make it so much easier" - independent consultant

Magic might not be the best word for what was really custom engineering to create a truly scalable infrastructure and understanding where the bottlenecks actually lie for an individual client.  Product lines are important but understanding when it’s time to create a bespoke offering taking into account the client’s specific needs are just as important.

In this talk - we’ll cover the building blocks and discuss:

How a 1 second delay in performance can reduce conversion by 7%

Relationship between load time and bounce rate

The importance of partnering with your client not just providing a service

How to load test and determine breaking points of code and infrastructure

How to scale every component of the stack

What the git-driven, PaaS Platform.sh will do to increase efficiency and scalability of your eCommerce application.

Learn about the need for speed and stability for eCommerce sites and the infrastructure that hosts and supports them in this case study session.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hEhU8Z69h3w


