Title: Achieve the event-driven Nirvana with Apache Druid
Publication date: 2020-10-26
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Streaming
Description: 
	Achieve the event-driven Nirvana with Apache Druid
Abdelkrim Hadjidj

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

After two decades of transforming into data-driven organizations, companies are moving to the next level: building event-driven organizations. An event-driven organization achieves faster insights, a better customer experience and more agility. However, this transformation requires advanced skills to make sense of all the events in real-time which put business people on the side. In this presentation, we will review the data architectures used by the most advanced event driven organizations today. We will discuss the challenges they face on delivering the promised business value and why stream processing technologies like Apache Kafka and Apache Flink are not enough to achieve the streaming nirvana. Finally, we will explain how Apache Druid enables self-service BI on event data and allows business users to ask their own questions leading to real-time insights.

Abdelkrim is a Data expert with 12 years experience on distributed systems (big data, IoT, peer to peer and cloud). He helps customers in EMEA using open source streaming technologies such as Apache Kafka, NiFi, Flink and Druid to pivot into event driven organizations. Abdelkrim is currently working as a Senior Solution Engineer at Imply. Previously, He held several positions including Senior Streaming Specialist at Cloudera, Solution Engineer at Hortonworks, Big Data Lead at Atos and CTO at Artheamis. He published several scientific papers at well-known IEEE and ACM journals. You can find him talking at Meetups or worldwide tech conferences such as Dataworks Summit, Strata or Flink Forward. He founded and runs the Future Of Data Meetup in Paris which is a group of 2300+ data and tech enthusiasts.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n8BNIn9n0bA


