Title: Keynote: 6 Months In: A User’s Journey into the Foundation - Dustin Bennett & Sheetal Pole
Publication date: 2018-03-07
Playlist: Open Source Leadership Summit 2018
Description: 
	Keynote: 6 Months In: A User’s Journey into the Foundation - Dustin Bennett, Software Engineer Sr. Manager & Sheetal Pole, Software Engineer Manager, The Home Depot 

As one of the largest Cloud Foundry end users, The Home Depot has a diverse array of applications serving its website, stores, and internal operations. In October 2017, the world's largest home improvement retailer joined the Cloud Foundry Foundation as a gold member. Sheetal and Dustin will present on the initial strategy, successes, and lessons learned as the company has on-boarded with the Foundation. They will discuss the benefits realized as a Foundation member and the impact that contributing back to the community has had on the company.

About Dustin 
Dustin is a Software Engineer Senior Manager at The Home Depot responsible for enterprise application platforms and developer tools targeting a community of thousands of software engineers. Current efforts include building out platforms on hybrid cloud architecture, retirement of legacy applications and platforms, Jenkins, Sonar, and Github operation, as well as development of software supporting all of these initiatives. Dustin has served as a systems engineer, product manager, and software developer in the transportation and retail industries. Originally from Atlanta, he played football at MIT and moved back down south in search of a warmer climate.

About Sheetal
Sheetal is an experienced Solutions Architect and has worked in multiple industries, most recently retail. She is currently a Software Engineer Manager at the Home Depot where she is helping several teams modernize the Home Depot stores systems architectures. She loves to design and implement robust solutions that reduce time to market by using XP and cloud native principles.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NbO5nbqBjbQ


