Title: Keynote Panel: Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Publication date: 2018-03-07
Playlist: Open Source Leadership Summit 2018
Description: 
	Keynote Panel: Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning - Deepak Agarwal, VP of Engineering, LinkedIn; Mazin Gilbert, VP of Advanced Technology, AT&T Labs; Rachel Thomas, Co-founder, fast.ai; Tarry Singh, Deep Learning Executive

About Deepak
Deepak Agarwal is a vice president of engineering at LinkedIn where he is responsible for all AI efforts across the company. He is well known for his work on recommender systems and has published a book on the topic. He has published extensively in top-tier computer science conferences and has coauthored several patents. He is a Fellow of the American Statistical Association and has served on the Executive Committee of Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD). Deepak regularly serves on program committees of various conferences in the field of AI and computer science. He is also an associate editor of two flagship statistics journals.

About Mazin Gilbert
Dr. Mazin Gilbert is the Vice President of Advanced Technology at AT&T Labs. He leads AT&T’s research and advanced technology of its software-defined network. In this role, Mazin oversees advancements in networking and IP network management, big data, video technologies, artificial intelligence, information systems and visualization, algorithms and optimization, and scalable, reliable software platforms.

About Tarry Singh
Tarry Singh is an industry-acknowledged Deep Learning Executive with over 17 years of experience setting up data analytics divisions for F500 multi-nationals. He is currently a mentor at Courser’a DeepLearning Specialization working with Andrew Ng, the world’s leading figure in Artificial Intelligence. Expected learners to be trained is around 1.5 million already by end 2018 via a MOOC program. This training was ranked #2 in the world out of 8000 trainings, according to the Inc. Magazine.

About Rachel Thomas
Rachel Thomas was selected by Forbes as one of 20 Incredible Women in AI, earned her math PhD at Duke, and was an early engineer at Uber. She is co-founder of fast.ai, which created the “Practical Deep Learning for Coders” course that over 100,000 students have taken. Rachel is a popular writer and keynote speaker. Her writing has been read by over half a million people; has been translated into Chinese, Spanish, Korean, & Portuguese; and has made the front page of Hacker News 7x. She is on twitter @math_rachel and her website is here.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NlqT_MTH-nw


