Title: Apache Submarine: State of the union
Publication date: 2020-10-17
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Machine Learning
Description: 
	Apache Submarine: State of the union
Wangda Tan, Zhankun Tang

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Apache Submarine is the ONE PLATFORM to allow Data Scientists to create end-to-end machine learning workflow. ONE PLATFORM means it supports Data Scientists to finish their jobs on the same platform without frequently switching their toolsets. From dataset exploring data pipeline creation, model training (experiments), and push model to production (model serving and monitoring). All these steps can be completed within the ONE PLATFORM. In this talk, we’ll start with the current status of Apache Submarine – how it is used today in deployments large and small. We'll then move on to the exciting present & future of Submarine – features that are further strengthening Submarine as the ONE PLATFORM for data scientists to train/manage machine learning models. We’ll discuss highlight of the newly released 0.4.0 version, and new features 0.5.0 release which is planned in 2020 Q3: - New features to run model training (experiments) on K8s, submit mode training job by using easy-to-use Python/REST API or UI. - Integration to Jupyter notebook, and allows Data-Scientists to provision, manage notebook session, and submit offline machine learning jobs from notebooks. - Integration with Conda kernel, Docker images to make hassle-free experiences to manage reusable notebook/mode-training experiments within a team/company. - Pre-packaged Training Template for Data-Scientists to focus on domain-specific tasks (like using DeepFM to build a CTR prediction model). We will also share mid-term/long-term roadmap for Submarine, including Model management for model-serving/versioning/monitoring, etc.

Wangda Tan:
Wangda Tan is Sr. Manager of Compute Platform engineering team @ Cloudera, responsible for all engineering efforts related to Kubernetes, Apache Hadoop YARN, Resource Scheduling, and internal container cloud. In open-source world, he's a member of Apache Software Foundation (ASF), PMC Chair of Apache Submarine project, He is also project management committee (PMC) members of Apache Hadoop, Apache YuniKorn (incubating). Before joining Cloudera, he leads High-performance-computing on Hadoop related work in EMC/Pivotal. Before that, he worked in Alibaba Cloud and participated in the development of a distributed machine learning platform (later became ODPS XLIB).

Zhankun Tang:
Zhankun Tang is Staff Software Engineer @Cloudera. He’s interested in big data, cloud computing, and operating system. Now focus on contributing new features to Hadoop as well as customer engagement. Zhankun is PMC member of Apache Hadoop/Submarine, prior to Cloudera/Hortonworks, he works for Intel.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=raXfcdLqPt0


