Title: Running BSD on AWS - Julien Simon & Nicolas David
Publication date: 2019-10-16
Playlist: EuroBSDcon 2017, France
Description: 
	Description:

No, Amazon Web Services is not only Linux territory! It’s actually quite easy
to run your favorite BSD OS in the Cloud and we’ll show you how in this session.
First, we’ll start with a quick recap on the AWS infrastructure, before
explaining how you can build and launch BSD-based Amazon Machine Images.
We’ll then start a FreeBSD instance on a rather large server and we’ll build a
ZFS volume based on local disks. Finally, we’ll see how fast we can run a full
‘build world’: place your bets 😉

Speaker biography:

Julien Simon, Principal Technical Evangelist at Amazon Web Services.
Before joining AWS, Julien served for 10 years as CTO/VP Engineering in
top-tier web startups. Thus, he’s particularly interested in all things
architecture, deployment, performance, scalability and data. As a Principal
Technical Evangelist, Julien speaks very frequently at conferences and technical
workshops, where he meets developers and enterprises to help them bring their
ideas to life thanks to the Amazon Web Services infrastructure.
Nicolas David. Prior to joining AWS, Nicolas evolved for 15 years
in information technology industry at major French and European
actors of the Software Edition, Bank and Insurance businesses in a
variety of roles. Today, Nicolas uses his experience to support AWS
customers transforming their way to think IT using the cloud
computing. While delivering a broad range of sessions from introductory
level (AWSome Days, AWS Technical Essentials, AWS Business Essentials),
to advanced courses (Architecting/Advanced Architecting Concepts
on AWS, System Operations on AWS, Security Operations on AWS, DevOps
Engineering on AWS, Big Data on AWS); Nicolas contributes to
Presentations, Hands-on Labs and the material used in and around
AWS Training Sessions, like events, meetups and public talks.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2F7XU5sMh4c


