Title: Keynote: Who Pays for Open Source? A Case for Open Governance & Enterprise Contributions
Publication date: 2018-09-04
Playlist: Open Source Summit NA 2018 - Vancouver
Description: 
	Keynote: Who Pays for Open Source? A Case for Open Governance & Enterprise Contributions - Angel Diaz, VP Developer Technology, Open Source & Advocacy, IBM

The beauty of open source is that it is developed in the open as a public collaboration between companies and individuals and then made freely available to download and use. It sounds perfect but at the end of the day, who really pays for open source to meet the demands of quality code contributions and best of breed maintenance? In his keynote, Angel Diaz explores this provocative question making the rounds in developer circles today and makes the case for open governance and enterprise contributions as the way forward. Learn about the best practices of open governance as well as the crucial importance of enterprise contributions to open source to drive quality code, deliver on maintenance needs and minimize overall risk for the community.

About Angel Diaz
Always on the move, Dr. Angel Diaz is IBM’s VP of Developer Technology, Open Source & Advocacy. Angel and his team are responsible for the technology, architecture and strategy behind IBM’s Hybrid, open and secure cloud – empowering our clients with a new way to work.

When he’s not working to bring greater value to clients through a flexible & interoperable cloud, he’s IBM’s leader for open technology where he is spearheading an industry IT renaissance driven by open source code, community and culture. A master of the art-of-the-possible, Dr. Diaz has been the driving force behind many of the most important Cloud, Data and Mobile open technology industry movements – all focused on enabling innovation that is built on simple, practical solutions. With a career rooted in IBM Research, building the standards upon which the web runs, and having successfully lead both business & development teams at IBM, Dr. Diaz has a unique perspective on technology’s effect on today’s opportunities.In those rare moments of stillness, you might find Dr. Diaz vanquishing his foes across Azeroth, or forging amazing new worlds in Minecraft with his daughter.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CKakrDvUj_M


