Title: Keynote: Opportunities for AI ML with Cloud Native Applications - Sana Tariq, Senior Architect
Publication date: 2018-09-04
Playlist: Open Source Summit NA 2018 - Vancouver
Description: 
	Keynote: Opportunities for AI/ML with Cloud Native Applications - Sana Tariq, Senior Architect, E2E Service Orchestration, TELUS

In this talk, Sana Tariq will share how the evolving space of AI/ML will play a significant role in closed-loop automation and change the services business and operational models. Why it’s the right time for exploring AI/ML with the onset of containers, cloud-native applications, and programmable stacks. We will review the dynamic policy and AI/ML use-cases roadmap. At the end we will review open source projects associated with these initiatives and what do we expect from them!

About Sana Tariq
Sana Tariq is a member of TELUS team acting as senior architectect for E2E Service Orchestration. Sana earned her doctoral degree in Computer Science specializing in optical communications, cloud computing, network functions virtualization and Software Defined Networking (SDNs) from University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL in 2014. 

Before joining TELUS, Sana has worked in multiple service provider networks including Telenor and T-Mobile USA for over 7 years. Sana has been among the leading team for T-Mobile NFV/SDN initiative for IMS core network architecture. Presented T-Mobile NFV/SDN vision to management and worked on launching numerous T-Mobile IMS services. 
At TELUS communications Inc., Sana is currently leading architecture and long term roadmap of E2E Service Orchestration platform. She is also leading initiative to optimize cloud resources through AI driven orchestration closed loop and evaluating multiple AI and machine learning algorithms and approaches.

Sana has been a frequent speaker in organization's internal and external events. A short list of previous presentations/events below

"QAMO-SDN: QoS aware Multipath TCP for software defined optical networks" (Speaker) Consumer Communications and Networking Conference (CCNC), 2015, Las Vegas, NV, USA

"Performance evaluation of MPTCP over optical burst switching in data centers" (Speaker) Telecommunications Symposium (ITS), 2014, Sao Paulo, Brazil 

"QAMO: QoS Aware Multipath-TCP Over Optical Burst Switching in Data Centers" (Speaker) International Conference on Optical Communication Systems (OPTICS 2014) Vienna, Austria 

"Improving Fairness of OBS Routing Protocols in Multimode Fiber Networks" (Speaker) Computing, Networking and Communications (ICNC), 2013 International Conference San Diego, CA, USA
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j__WMRS-Z1c


