Title: Keynote: Software-defined Everything - Imad Sousou
Publication date: 2018-08-30
Playlist: Open Source Summit NA 2018 - Vancouver
Description: 
	Keynote: Software-defined Everything - Imad Sousou, Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Open Source Technology Center, Intel

As we move toward a world where everything is smart and connected, we are constantly challenged by the need for rapid innovation. The time has come for us to rethink our development practices and deployment models and to usher in the next wave of the technology revolution with modernized operating systems, frameworks, software, and infrastructure. Imad Sousou, corporate vice president and general manager of the Open Source Technology Center for Intel Corporation, will highlight how Intel is uniquely positioned to drive the increasingly smart, connected world.

About Imad Sousou
Imad Sousou is corporate vice president and general manager of the Open Source Technology Center at Intel Corporation. Sousou is responsible for leading Intel's efforts in open source software across technologies and market segments. These include: Linux-based operating systems such as Linux for data center and devices, Google Android and Chrome OS, and Alibaba AliOS; cloud and data center stacks such as orchestrators, containers, virtualization, as well as cloud and networking system components; and IoT/edge system software including, robotics operating system, drone system software, real-time operating systems, microcontroller operating systems, embedded Linux, and software-defined cockpit and client device software. He also leads the development of software solutions such as Clear Linux, Zephyr, and Yocto and drives the technical relationship and enabling for Linux operating system vendors, cloud service providers, and original equipment manufacturers supporting customer platforms with on-site engineering and enabling partner products to ensure they include the latest Intel technologies.

Sousou joined Intel in 1994 as a senior software engineer. Prior to leading the Open Source Technology Center, he was director of telecom software programs in the Intel Communications Group and director of software engineering in the Home Products Group. He began his career as a software engineer at Central Point Software working on system utilities for the Apple Mac OS. Intel has twice honored Sousou with the Intel Achievement Award; in 2007 for his role in the agreement with Sun Microsystems on Open Solaris, and in 2011 for leadership through open source solutions. Sousou sits on the board of directors at the OpenStack Foundation, the Open Connectivity Foundation, the Dronecode Foundation, and the Cloud Native Computing Foundation; on the advisory board for the Core Infrastructure Initiative at the Linux Foundation; and holds a bachelor’s degree in computer science and mathematics from Portland State University.
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VjurU2Ysq6k


