Title: Lightning Talk: Delivering the Next Gen User Experience - Matt Hogstrom, IBM
Publication date: 2018-08-29
Playlist: Open Source Summit NA 2018 - Vancouver
Description: 
	Lightning Talk: Delivering the Next Gen User Experience - Matt Hogstrom, IBM

Have you heard about Zowe, the new open source platform from the Open Mainframe Project? Find out more about how this simple, intuitive environment redefines the z/OS user experience aligns with the rest of the industry.

About Matt Hogstrom
Matt Hogstrom is a technologist that has both consumed and produced IT products in his 30+ years as an IT professional. Currently he works for IBM and is the Chief Architect of the IT Operations and Optimization Suite of products for z/OS Systems. Previously at IBM Matt contributed to the creation of several other products including the PureApplication System, WebSphere CloudBurst Appliance, IBM WebSphere Community Edition (based on Apache Geronimo) as well as being the Performance Architect for IBM the IBM WebSphere product on all hardware platforms (Power, SPARC, Z and Intel). Prior to working for IBM Matt was a z/OS, CICS and DB2 Systems Programmer for Kaiser Permanente in Southern California and Rite Aid. In those roles he built solutions that were part of the IT ecosystem where the IBM Z platform was a key element but operated alongside distributed architectures. Matt also participated as a member of the Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation and created several performance benchmarks for Java Enterprise Edition as part of the OSG-Java subcommittee. He participated on sub-groups at the Java Community Process defining the first Java EE benchmark (JSR-004 and JSR-141). He is a member of the Apache Software Foundation and previously served as the VP for the Apache Geronimo PMC and performance engineer on the Apache Geronimo project. He is an evangelist for Open Source development and excited to see z/OS becoming part of the OpenSource community for various projects where the community can build a better Z.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0s9NhrnYzUc


