Title: A Web of Infinite Possibilities -  - City JS Conf 2019
Publication date: 2019-05-14
Playlist: City JS Conf 2019
Description: 
	Ingrid Epure

Once upon a time, you could do all sort of crazy things on the web like run Java programs, and build animations using Flash. There were no standards, so developers had to make different versions of every website they built so that they’re compatible with the browsers at the time.
The web saw both a rise in creativity, and in really serious security vulnerabilities, as it became exponentially harder to develop for it.
With the adoption of (much needed) web standards and the dotCom crash, the focus has shifted to stabilizing and unifying the way we build, consume, and think about the web, and naturally some of the technologies died along the way being unable to keep up. 
 
The web as most of us know it today became variations of the same ideas and ways of building, with one language to rule the ecosystem : JavaScript. Some also argue that the web became ‘serious,’ corporate, and a way to make money, to the detriment of creativity and innovation. 
 
But the idea of running other languages on the web was still in people’s hearts, so a new glimmer of hope was born, and named WebAssembly or WASM. Simply put, WASM provides other languages like C++ and Rust a compilation target so that they can run on the web. All designed to nicely play alongside JavaScript. How exciting is that!?
 
In this talk, we will explore WASM as a way of bringing things that are not of the web, to the web. We will discuss how WebAssembly can open the web to even more engineers and creators, and boost creativity and innovation in a secure way.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NwjpGQiphW0


