Title: Ada 99: Rewriting the very first computer program:  How does JavaScript stack up?  - City JS Conf 20
Publication date: 2019-05-14
Playlist: City JS Conf 2019
Description: 
	Marquis de Geek

I've been developing in JavaScript for nearly 20 years and so am used to solving every problem with a JavaScript-shaped hammer. I don't think I'm alone in this, and wanted to break out of that mindset. Over my career I've professional developed in 16 different languages (and used a further 10 out of curiosity) so I set about re-writing the same code in each of those languages. The purpose of the exercise was (and is) to learn, re-learn, and refresh my memory of these programming languages.
 
By focusing on the paradigms, syntax, data types, and structure of the code I was able to draw parallels between them and JavaScript which encourages me to think outside of the JavaScript-shaped box. This talk will take you on that journey of discovery highlighting many ideas you can take back into your own code, and well as giving an insight into many other languages you might not have seen. It will also make you thankful, or otherwise, by showing what you need to work through in other languages to achieve the same results as JavaScript.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Q_PJk3lMx4


