Title: Creating Your Own Image Format in the Browser   - City JS Conf 2019
Publication date: 2019-05-14
Playlist: City JS Conf 2019
Description: 
	Trent Willis

The web platform features I’ll cover in this talk (particularly Service Workers) are important topics in the JavaScript community for helping us build performant applications with great user experiences, but they also have some interesting characteristics that we can use to do things that previously weren’t possible in JavaScript.
This talk will encourage us to think about different ways we might be able to leverage these new features while giving a practical example with real code. So even if you are not interested in creating your own image format, you should walk away with some insights into the power and flexibility of the modern web platform.
_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZPxzpbnXiYc


