Title: The Oracle at Delphi Neither Speaks nor Conceals -  City JS Conf 2019
Publication date: 2019-05-14
Playlist: City JS Conf 2019
Description: 
	Sam Galson 

The "exotic" types of testing that interest me here (fuzz testing, generative testing, property-based testing, metamorphic testing and mutation testing) are not talked about much in the JS community. I believe that is not because they are known to be unhelpful, but rather because little is known about them at all.
 
Libraries to enable these sorts of testing are still immature, but now reaching a point where it is possible for developers to try them out and come to their own opinions about the value of these testing approaches.
 
My aim in this talk is therefore to educate about alternative testing methodologies and encourage the trialling of new tools so that the community can better gauge the value of the techniques they make possible.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x6zh3HRMl3U


