Title: Fireside Chat: ClearPath to Deep Dive into Container Data - Abby Kearns & John Garrett
Publication date: 2016-09-30
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Europe 2016
Description: 
	Fireside Chat: ClearPath to Deep Dive into Container Data - Abby Kearns & John Garrett

About John Garrett
John Garrett is a Founder and Partner at ClearPath Strategies, a US-based research and consulting firm specializing in international political campaigns and multi-national corporate strategy. Garrett has a proven track record of success advising political, corporate, and organizational leaders around the world—from winning elections, to branding and positioning, to executing challenging research. His body of work spans six continents and over two dozen countries.

Garrett has worked on high profile races and historic victories across the globe—from Australia and the Philippines to Austria and Ukraine—and across a range of levels of office—from Prime Minister to Senator to Mayor. In over 10 years, he has achieved a win record over 90%. Garrett also brings rich experience helping corporate leaders use research to create meaningful insights and impactful executions. He specializes in helping companies of all sizes sharpen reputations, create or refresh brands, and improve messaging to target audiences. He has worked on multiple continents with corporate clients of varying industries—from gigantic tech firms to boutique financial services companies to national consumer product brands. Garrett believes in strategy driven by research and has years of experience designing, executing, and analyzing surveys to translate research into actionable advice for
his clients. In particular, he specializes in complicated research environments—from rural Kenya or diverse archipelagos like the Philippines, to C-Suite executive interviews at Fortune 500 companies, to multiple-geography quantitative and qualitative studies in the rapidly-changing world of IT. Garrett has written, managed, and analyzed hundreds of surveys on a variety of subjects and has personally overseen hundreds of focus groups in more than 20 countries.

Prior to starting ClearPath, Garrett worked at the Democratic polling firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner. He received BAs in International Studies and in German from Austin College in Sherman, Texas.

About Abby Kearns
A 18-year technology veteran with a career that has spanned product marketing, product management, and consulting at a mix of Fortune 500 and startup companies. Abby was most recently in the Product Management team at Pivotal, focusing on Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Before that Abby led a Product Management and Product Marketing team at Verizon that focused on cloud services.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o6qqQcFLn4A


