Title: Learn to Develop a Service Broker in No Time by Christian Brinker, evoila GmbH
Publication date: 2016-09-30
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Europe 2016
Description: 
	Learn to Develop a Service Broker in No Time - Christian Brinker, evoila GmbH

When it comes to setting up a Cloud Foundry environment, one of the first questions is which services should be provided. Therefore, Service Brokers are the core components to implement. Based on their experience on the development of several Service Brokers for use cases in DevOps and production infrastructures the speakers present how to avoid common pitfalls and risks. Together with the audience the speakers implement an exemplary Service Broker based on an Open Source framework[1]. After the tutorial, participants are able to implement their own Service Brokers more efficiently with the gained insights and knowledge. The speaker team helps the audience to benefit from their rich experience from small and highly complex projects and the improving of their own DevOps infrastructure with customized Service Brokers to accelerate Development.[1] https://github.com/evoila/cf-service-broker

About Christian Brinker
As long-standing member of the evoila Automation and Technology team and Automation Engineer Christian Brinker is well experienced in the automation of Cloud Environments. His focus is the development of Software Architectures in customized XaaS solutions. He developed many solutions in and for the Cloud Foundry ecosystem, like Service Brokers or complex Billing Systems for Cloud Foundry and OpenStack. Additionally he gained broad experience as a Data Scientist resulting in publications and presentations on international conferences. The next conference he attends as a speaker are the upcoming OpenStack Days Germany 2016. Christian Brinker works at an agile, German-based cloud engineering and consulting company. The evoila GmbH develops cloud strategies and engineers tools for cloud enablement and improvement. Their customers are small companies, global players and the public sector.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hl-zIvAu7TA


