Title: What is "Serverless"? - Moderated by Kim Bannerman, IBM
Publication date: 2016-09-30
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Europe 2016
Description: 
	What is "Serverless"? - Moderated by Kim Bannerman, IBM; Kenny Bastani, Ruben Orduz, Jason Kennedy, & Tyler Britten, IBM, Casey West & Kenny Bastani, Pivotal

We all have heard these "Serverless" or "NoOps" buzzwords lately. So, why do these matter? How does it affect Cloud Foundry? Are they affronts or sources of impulse for the platform and community and CF technology? Should CF take a stance or just let the buzz fizz? 

The thrust and motivation of this panel is the increased (mis)use of buzzwords like "serverless" and "NoOps" floating around and how those tend to be conflated with other technologies like PaaS, CF, and other fast-deployment technologies. 

Please note it's not supposed to be a critique or the merits of the technologies discussed. It's a constructive and educational panel on the nomenclature and messaging and how that impacts Cloud Foundry and the tech community at large.

About Kim Bannerman
Kim Bannerman leads the Technical Advocacy & Community team inside the Office of the CTO at IBM Blue Box. Kim has over a decade of experience in the tech industry working with enterprise customers. Prior to joining Blue Box, she was the Director of Evangelism Programs inside the ISV Partner Ecosystem at CenturyLink Cloud.

Kim is passionate about open source and the open source community. She co-founded the Atlanta Hadoop Users Group in 2011, and co-founded the Seattle & Atlanta Cloud Foundry meet-up groups in 2014. You can follow her on twitter at @kmbannerman

About Ruben Orduz
Enterprise software developer for over a decade. Cloud architect and advocate for five years. FOSS enthusiast and advocate. Obsessed with improving user and developer experiences.

About Casey West
Working in Internet infrastructure, web app security, and design taught Casey to be a paranoid, UX-oriented, problem solving Internet plumber; his earliest contributions to Perl live to this day on your Mac. Casey’s speaking and writing ranges from open source communities and culture to technical architecture and automation tips and tricks. Casey West wears the mantle of Principal Technologist focused on Pivotal’s Cloud Foundry Platform and lives in Pittsburgh raising three sarcastic children.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TEFXG31LnM8


