Title: What’s New in Cloud Foundry Routing
Publication date: 2016-09-30
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Europe 2016
Description: 
	What’s New in Cloud Foundry Routing - Shannon Coen, Prashanth Subrahmanyam and Chris Piraino, Pivotal

Route Services: Until recently, developers were on their own to implement rate-limiting, authentication, and many request transformation functions offered by API gateway services. Route Services expand the use cases that can be fulfilled by Marketplace services, enabling developers managing apps on CF to inject a service into the request path, or dynamically configure a component already in the request path. User-provided services are also supported! 

TCP Routing: Some developers would like to run workloads on Cloud Foundry that receive requests over TCP protocols other than http. Some developers would prefer to terminate TLS connections at the application. With support for TCP routing and multiple app ports, we enable these use case and more. 

This session will provide an update from the Routing team, including demonstrations of some of these new features in CF Routing.

About Shannon Coen
Shannon Coen has been guiding core functionality in Cloud Foundry since joining VMWare in 2012. He stayed with the project when it moved to Pivotal, and served for three years as Product Manager with the Services team, launching the v2 broker API in 2013, the MySQL BOSH release as a reference implementation, and most of the subsequent enhancements including support for asynchronous operations in 2015. Since 2015 he has served as Product Manager for the Cloud Foundry Routing team. Shannon is a member of the CF Foundation PMC Council.

About Christopher Piraino
Chris Piraino has been a core contributor to Cloud Foundry for over 2 years. As a software engineer for Pivotal, Chris has previously working on the CLI and Cloud Controller API. For the past year, he has been working on the CF Routing team where he has been working on shipping new routing features, such as Route Services and TCP Routing.

About Prashanth Subrahmanyam
Prashanth is a technology addict who loves to solve real world problems using technology and code. Professionally he has played the roles of a Developer, Architect, Scrum Master, and Agile Coach.

As an Architect, he has progressed from designing large, enterprise software to building Highly Scalable and API-coupled, Microservices-based systems.

At Apigee, Prashanth builds solutions to help customers accelerate their Digital Transformation journey.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=40y8dMwaYyE


