Title: Algorithms as Data: A Case Study for Turning Algorithmic User Experiences into Research Data Objects
Publication date: 2021-05-20
Playlist: CSVConf 2021
Description: 
	Presenter: Jason A. Clark

Why does your technology seem to know what you want before you do? Increasingly, our digital experiences are mediated by obscure algorithms. But what are algorithms and how can we audit or quantify them? This session introduces an "algorithmic awareness" research module and a generic code application for auditing algorithmic user experiences and quantifying those experiences as datasets for analysis. What if algorithms weren’t the Ghost in the Machine? Can algorithms be understood as part of the open data continuum? Montana State University Library, with grant funding from the Institute of Museum and Library Services, has conducted research in order to develop software and a curriculum to support the teaching of "Algorithmic Awareness": an understanding around the rules that govern our software and shape our digital experiences. Taking our inspiration from investigative data journalists, like The Markup, we are looking to introduce our research module for algorithm auditing practices using code, web scraping methods, and structured data formats to uncover proprietary algorithms and turn them into research data objects for analysis. (Code is available in our #AlgorithmicAwareness GitHub repository.) Our case study for the module will be the YouTube Video Recommendation Algorithm which has come under criticism for its tactics in drawing parents’ and childrens’ attention to their videos. Our goal will be to show the generic patterns, data points, and scripts one can use to analyze algorithmic user experiences and demonstrate how code can be used to turn algorithms into datasets for analysis. In the end, attendees will be able to realize actionable steps for seeing algorithms as data objects, gain a sense of the first steps one can take to programmatically audit these systems with code, and take away investigative data techniques for their own work.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a6Up8o4Hh_w


