Title: Katy Sill, Adam Kariv - The Water Point Data Exchange - using Open Data for Universal Water Access
Publication date: 2021-05-20
Playlist: CSVConf 2021
Description: 
	Water points are still the main - or sometimes only - source of water for millions of people living in rural areas of the world. The Water Point Data Exchange (WPDx) unlocks the potential of water point data to improve the information available to governments, service providers, researchers, and NGOs, and create data-based decision-making for increasing rural water access. Governments and their partners are already collecting substantial amounts of water point data. However, data is often too fragmented to use, with different approaches for data collection and storage. Without harmonization among these different data sources, the true potential of this information remains untapped so it is only used for reporting and not decision support. By establishing a platform for sharing water point data throughout the global water sector, WPDx adds value to the data already being collected. It brings together diverse data sets and establishes an unprecedented understanding of water services. All stakeholders can easily use the WPDx Data Standard to harmonize their existing data structure. Formatting existing data into the WPDx Data Standard typically takes less than 30 minutes. The WPDx Data Standard fits most water point data, even if it was collected with no knowledge of the standard. After formatting, files can be uploaded and published using the WPDx ingestion engine. It removes duplicate entries, links multiple updates to the same water point, and integrates the data into the Global Data Repository. Using this data and advanced GIS and machine learning analysis, several decision support tools were built. Designed in partnership with governments and data scientists, these tools provide concrete insights, like which water point to send a technician to rehabilitate next to reach the most people. In this presentation we will share some of the challenges we face and the methods we use in making this possible.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XWqx7XDvui4


