Title: Disaster Recovery with a Distributed Database - Max Neunhöffer & Jörg Schad, Mesosphere, Inc.
Publication date: 2017-10-31
Playlist: MesosCon Europe 2017
Description: 
	Disaster Recovery with a Distributed Database - Max Neunhöffer & Jörg Schad, Mesosphere, Inc.

Enterprises large and small want to have a disaster recovery plan at the ready when they are running distributed databases. The simplest such setup uses two database clusters in two different data centers with asynchronous replication of all updates. However, already this seemingly simple approach causes considerable head scratching for architects and developers of a distributed data store, considering fault tolerance, network failures, automatic failover and write load spikes.

This talk explains how ArangoDB implements asynchronous DC to DC replication between clusters using the Kafka message broker on both sides together with an incremental replication protocol and automatic write ahead log tailing. Apache Mesos plays a vital role in managing the deployment, managing resources, improve utilization, ensure scalability and ensuring liveness of the whole system.

About Max Neunhöffer
Max Neunhöffer is a mathematician turned database developer. In his academic career he has worked for 16 years on the development and implementation of new algorithms in computer algebra. During this time he has juggled a lot with mathematical big data like group orbits containing trillions of points. Recently he has returned from St Andrews to Germany, has shifted his focus to NoSQL databases, and now helps to develop ArangoDB. He has spoken at international conferences including Strata London.

About Jörg Schad
Jörg is a software engineer at Mesosphere in Hamburg. In his previous life he implemented distributed and in memory databases and conducted research in the Hadoop and Cloud area. His speaking experience includes various Meetups, international conferences, and lecture halls.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CseOows3870


