Title: Spark Over a Mesos Secured Productive Environment - Jorge Lopez-Malla & Marcos Peñate, Stratio
Publication date: 2017-10-27
Playlist: MesosCon Europe 2017
Description: 
	Spark Over a Mesos Secured Productive Environment - Jorge Lopez-Malla & Marcos Peñate, Stratio

Big Data is a reality nowadays on companies, and because of this new reality they have moved from using Big Data in proof of concept projects to use it at the core of the companies itself. This change along with Data Science growth and the power of business intelligence tools has required an effort in our solutions to provide a secured and isolated environments which protects the companies from malicious users. Are we prepared for the challenge?

From Stratio we have modified the behavior of Apache Spark over Apache Mesos to provide a new layer of isolation to the actors that are involved on a Spark workflow by using a Software Defined Networks solutions (SDN) and by changing the spark core network layer. We have also added a smart way to handle the secrets without the interaction of the user with the secrets of the platform adding some functionality to Apache Spark security module.

About Jorge Lopez-Malla
Jorge has been involved in the inception and implementation of projects related to several fields such as digital media, telcos, banks & insurance companies. He is in charge of Stratio’s Big Data training, having been one of the first engineers to become Spark certified. Previous speaking experience: How to make your Spark jobs fly, Spark Hand's on Mistakes that everyone does in Big Data Projects(Codemotion), How to transform data into money using Big Data Technologies (Apache Big Data Conf Europe) and Kerberizing Spark (Spark Summit East).

About Marcos Peñate
Marcos is QA Engineer at Stratio focused on Big Data solutions. He has been involved into big data projects making risk analysis, performance testing and defining Stratio Platform architecture. He is also passionate about astrophysics, a compulsive #SciFi consumer and enjoys Dockerizing everything. Connect with him on twitter @marcosmi5.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7ss068Ll3DI


