Title: The Container Storage Initiative: What is this Project About and Where are We Going? - Steve Wong
Publication date: 2017-10-27
Playlist: MesosCon Europe 2017
Description: 
	The Container Storage Initiative: What is this Project About and Where are We Going? - Steve Wong, {code} & Jie Yu & James DeFelice, Mesosphere, Inc.

Over the past 2 years there has been a huge shift involving stateful applications becoming a mainstream feature used by most container users. This has been observed by storage vendors, the Mesos project, and on other container orchestrator platforms. The Container Storage Interface (CSI) is modeled on the successful CNCF sponsored OCI and CNI interoperability initiatives in the container and network space respectively. Its goal is to provide a vendor neutral, curated specification that allows standardized storage plugins to be published and utilized across multiple container orchestrators, including Mesos.

This session will cover the architecture of the CSI. Multiple speakers will address the benefits a standardized storage interface can offer to users, from the perspective of both a container orchestrator and from a storage provider that wishes to support multiple platforms.

About James DeFelice
James is a Tech Lead at Mesosphere, Inc, currently focused on framework development and storage. Before joining Mesosphere, he spent time building on-demand VM provisioning platforms and supporting Mesos users in the wild. James has an MS in Bioinformatics from the Rochester Institute of Technology.

About Steve Wong
Steve Wong is an Open Source Engineer with the {code} team. Steve has been participating in the Apache Mesos, DC/OS, Kubernetes, and REX-Ray projects.

About Jie Yu
Jie Yu is a Tech Lead at Mesosphere, Inc, focused on containerization, storage and networking. Before joining Mesosphere, he was a software engineer at Twitter. Jie obtained his PhD in Computer Science and Engineering from the University of Michigan where he conducted research for concurrent and event-driven systems.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsZEGBOcQ5Q


