Title: Collaborate on Linux for Use in Safety-Critical Systems? - Lukas Bulwahn, BMW Car IT GmbH
Publication date: 2018-10-25
Playlist: Open Source Summit Europe & ELC + OpenIoT Summit Europe 2018
Description: 
	Collaborate on Linux for Use in Safety-Critical Systems? - Lukas Bulwahn, BMW Car IT GmbH

There is a current industry trend to build fully autonomous systems. To reach this goal, industry must manage complex software systems with high performance, safety and security requirements.
The operating system is non-differentiating in these systems and it is intended to be used multiple times over the whole product portfolio for a long time span. These conditions make it appealing to use Linux as robust open-source operating system.

OSADL's SIL2LinuxMP project has done initial investigations to use Linux in safety-critical systems, and provides first results to the public. Its further success however depends on enlarging the development partnership to provide an attractive solution to the overall industry. The talk shall sketch goals of a collaboration, development and business models of a collaboration and call interested companies to participate in this new collaborative project. 

About Lukas Bulwahn
Lukas Bulwahn has received a diploma in computer science and a PhD in formal methods from Technische Universität München. Since 2012, he is working at BMW Car IT GmbH on research and development of an open-source software platform for autonomous driving systems. One part of this research has been the development of Adaptive AUTOSAR, a standard to develop future software in C++ on top of POSIX operating systems. As another part of this research, he considers if Linux is sufficient for use as operating system for autonomous driving, which ultimately led to his participation in the OSADL SIL2LinuxMP project, where this question is answered in an industrial collaboration. He has presented his work at various industrial and open-source conferences, including FOSDEM, ELCE 2017, Open-Source Summit Japan 2017, safe.tech 2018, Verification Futures 2018 and many more.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Use04MfL2ms


