Title: Debian & Yocto: State of the Art - Kazuhiro Hayashi, Manuel Traut & Baurzhan Ismagulov
Publication date: 2018-10-25
Playlist: Open Source Summit Europe & ELC + OpenIoT Summit Europe 2018
Description: 
	Debian & Yocto: State of the Art - Kazuhiro Hayashi, Toshiba Corporation & Manuel Traut, Linutronix GmbH & Baurzhan Ismagulov

For building Linux-based products, combining benefits of existing distributions and tools becomes essential. Debian is the platform of choice for industrial and other products requiring continuous security updates and 10+ years of maintenance. Product builders need an integrated, flexible, easy-to-use toolkit for building product applications, patching Debian packages, and generating and customizing the root filesystem image.

ELBE, Isar, and Deby use Debian as the base system. The projects are working together towards a common solution. The approach is to provide tooling for package building, customization and release management based on Yocto build tools, structure, and workflows. In this talk, we will introduce why the projects joined efforts, what kind of functions are required for satisfying product demands, and how the functionality could be implemented with bitbake recipes. 

About Kazuhiro Hayashi
orks at TOSHIBA Corporation as a Software Engineer since 2010. The main part of his work is to develop Linux for various industrial embedded products. His another focus is to provide a common Linux distribution and its build infrastructure for effective product development and management by sharing existing resources and issues. Recently, he is maintaining the distro as an open source “Deby” (https://github.com/meta-debian/meta-debian) to improve its functionality by reflecting world-wide demands and keeping better affinity with existing communities such as Debian. 

About Baurzhan Ismagulov
ilbers GmbH

About Manuel Traut
Manuel works as Software Specialist at Linutronix GmbH since 2007. Over the years he gained experience in building Linux BSPs with different methods and toolkits. With this knowledge in mind he currently maintains the embedded linux build environment (ELBE http://elbe-rfs.org). ELBE reuses as much as possible from the Debian project. He regularly acts as Trainer for various embedded Linux topics (Yocto, Debian, Kernel Development, ...) and has given Linux-related talks at RTLWS, LinuxTag and Chemnitzer Linuxtage and Embedded Linux Conference Europe.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pWskw-79hSk


