Title: Linux IoT: From Prototype to Production - Drew Moseley, Mender.io
Publication date: 2018-10-25
Playlist: Open Source Summit Europe & ELC + OpenIoT Summit Europe 2018
Description: 
	Linux IoT: From Prototype to Production - Drew Moseley, Mender.io

 We will discuss some of the considerations device manufacturers should consider when designing Linux-based connected devices. These devices are increasingly common in the Internet of Things. We will discuss hardware, software, security, and how to bring it all together. We will present a demo solution using a Raspberry Pi device and provide a build environment and instructions for attendees to use on their own hardware.

We will start by defining IoT and its basics. We will cover the various applications, including the consumer, industrial, enterprise, and municipal markets. Design considerations for IoT development will be covered as well as the Cloud Infrastructure options available. 

The selection process will be covered, including hardware (on-board peripherals, form factor), system software (OS, system development tools, deployment strategies), and application software criteria. 

About Drew Moseley
Drew Moseley is currently part of the Mender.io open source project to deploy OTA software updates to embedded Linux devices. He has worked on embedded projects such as RAID storage controllers, Direct and Network attached storage devices and graphical pagers.

He has spent the last 7 years working in developing production deployments of embedded Linux systems for various security-sensitive industries. He has spent his career in embedded software and developer tools and has focused on embedded Linux and Yocto for about 10 years. He has given talks at various conferences, including Embedded Linux Conference, OSCON, Embedded Systems Conference and All Systems Go Berlin.

He is currently a Technical Solutions Engineer at Northern.tech, the company behind Mender.io, helping customers develop safer, more secure connected devices. He worked previously as a Technical Project Manager and Professional Services Engineer for Mentor Graphics. He was raised in Tampa, Florida and attended the University of Florida.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XFpi1aK0zbU


