Title: PREEMPT_RT isn't Just for Lasers: The Perfect Match - Christopher Obbard & Daniel James
Publication date: 2018-10-25
Playlist: Open Source Summit Europe & ELC + OpenIoT Summit Europe 2018
Description: 
	PREEMPT_RT isn't Just for Lasers: The Perfect Match for Hearing Aid Research! - Christopher Obbard & Daniel James, 64 Studio Ltd

Have you ever wondered how digital hearing aids are developed? Most people have probably never given this complex problem a second thought.

The Linux kernel (with the PREEMPT_RT patchset), GNU tools and Debian are the key ingredients for a project by the Cluster of Excellence group Hearing4all to research the development of new hearing aid algorithms.

The open Master Hearing Aid (openMHA) is an open-souce cross-platform toolbox which allows a user to form hearing aid processing chains. The software is scriptable to allow researchers to update and test algorithms on-the-fly.

At this session we'll present openMHA running on Mahalia, a mobile research platform composed of a BeagleBone Black Wireless, custom 6-channel soundcard (Cape4all) and battery. You'll learn how 64 Studio tuned the system to process all 6 channels of audio through complicated algorithms in less than 4ms! 

About Daniel James
Daniel James and Free Ekanayaka founded 64 Studio in 2005, using Debian, the new 64-bit desktop processors and the real-time Linux kernel to create a GNU/Linux workstation for media with best-in-class performance and stability. Since 2009, we have contributed to low-latency hearing aid research by the OpenMHA project, first on laptops, and now on embedded ARM devices. Daniel has been on a mission to make Free Software available to all since he got his own dial-up modem. 

About Chris Obbard
At 64 Studio Ltd we develop software and hardware solutions for research projects and consumer products normally with an audio or multimedia focus. We also develop tools to create Linux distributions for PCs as well as more recently Embedded Development boards and custom Embedded targets.

Most of the time I can be found in a dark room poking at the Linux Kernel trying to get an extra few bogomips of performance, crafting the final lines of an ALSA Soundcard driver, porting software to a newly released platform, laying out a circuit board or running hardware verification tests.

Christopher Obbard is a GNU/Linux developer focusing on embedded solutions, and a hardware engineer of medical and aerospace devices. Chris has recently contributed to a paper on multichannel embedded audio hardware for open source hearing aid research, submitted to the 2018 International Linux Audio Conference in Berlin.

Chris's specialities include audio driver development, working with Debian GNU/Linux for ARM processors, and the 64 Studio Platform Development Kit. In his spare time, Chris has built the software for the PiDeck project, a real-time embedded distribution for DJs, based on Debian and the xwax application by Mark Hills. PiDeck has a world-wide community and has featured in the official MagPi magazine from the Raspberry Pi Foundation.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vRpMAbILSEc


