Title: Spectre and Meltdown vs. Real-Time: How Much do Mitigations Cost? - Ralf Ramsauer & Wolfgang Mauerer
Publication date: 2018-10-25
Playlist: Open Source Summit Europe & ELC + OpenIoT Summit Europe 2018
Description: 
	Spectre and Meltdown vs. Real-Time: How Much do Mitigations Cost? - Ralf Ramsauer & Wolfgang Mauerer, OTH Regensburg; Jan Kiszka, Siemens AG

2018 had a bumpy landing with the disclosure of hardware vulnerabilities in microprocessors. With Spectre and Meltdown leading the way, they enabled attackers to read private data from kernel and user space. Since then, several other hardware bugs were revealed.

Lower level system software such as operating systems or hypervisors needs to implement countermeasures to the vulnerabilities. The fixes come at a cost, particularly in execution time. Embedded real-time environments have a strong focus on low latency and determinism and may be affected by those fixes.

What’s the mitigation cost and impact on typical real-time applications? To answer these question, we use benchmarks as well as a set of microbenchmarks to quantify the consequences of the mitigations. Our targets are real-time operating systems, such as the Preempt-RT patch for Linux as well as embedded real-time hypervisors. 

About Jan Kiszka
Jan Kiszka is working as consultant, open source evangelist and senior software engineer in the Competence Center for Embedded Linux at Siemens Corporate Technology. He is supporting Siemens division and subsidiaries with adapting and enhancing open source as platform for their products. For customer projects and whenever his spare time permits, he is contributing to open source projects, specifically in the area of real-time and virtualization. 

About Ralf Ramsauer
Ralf Ramsauer is a PhD student at the University of Applied Sciences Regensburg where he works in a joint project together with Siemens Corporate Competence Center Embedded Linux. His academic research interests focus on finding successful long term maintenance strategies for Open Source Software in embedded industrial context. This covers the full software stack of embedded systems, from hardware-related low-level virtualisation technologies via kernel-space through to userland.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nqU4j2M_Ul4


