Title: ReactiveConf 2018: Lightning Talks - Day 2
Publication date: 2018-11-05
Playlist: ReactiveConf 2018
Description: 
	29th - 31st October 2018, Prague, Czech Republic
https://reactiveconf.com/
Main stage
-------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Speaker: Jarda Machaň
Analytics visualizations as simple React components
GoodData.UI is a React-based JavaScript library used for building responsive analytical applications on top of the GoodData platform’s complex data analytics. Let me briefly show you the main principles, philosophy and capabilities of our latest contribution to the field of data visualization.

2. Speaker: Vojta Přikryl
Delightful Drag and Drop for complex interactive UIs
Drag and Drop is undoubtedly one of the most popular and user-friendly interactions in software nowadays. There are plenty awesome libraries for DnD in React realm, covering most of the use cases. We tried them all at productboard, but realized we need something special for complex interfaces we are building. We developed our own solution that satisfied three main requirements we had:

Delightful user experience 🤩
Great performance even for large datasets 🏎
Reusability of already existing code 🔌
In this lightning talk, I will explain why we decided to develop our own solution, what have we achieved, and how other developers can benefit from the knowledge we acquired. And most importantly - We are excited to open-source the tools we created and announce it at conference!

3.  Speaker: Oleksiy Golovko
Fastpack - pack JavaScript fast & easy
Brief intro on the world of bundlers
Why Fastpack is special?
How to install / configure / use it
Short demo if time permits

4.Speaker: Adam Klein
How to write bad code in Redux
Redux forces you to write good code" - I've heard that sentence many times. In fact - it's quite easy to write bad code with Redux, as I've seen many times.
In this talk I will show some bad practices and techniques with Redux, and how to avoid them.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=81K49MN0dM8


