Title: DrupalCon Denver 2012: PROJECT MANAGEMENT USING HYBRID AGILE DEVELOPMENT
Publication date: 2013-03-28
Playlist: DrupalCon Denver - March 2012
Description: 
	Very few shops use the purest version of any project management style. Whether it is Waterfall, Agile, or Cowboy - web development requires flexibility. Waterfall simply doesn't work in most cases -- " fixed scope" is the Holy Grail of project management. Meanwhile, Agile lacks the level of predictability most clients or employers seek. Cowboy is effective in prototyping and extremely rapid development but drives stakeholders crazy. The truth is, project management requires a blend of techniques and tools to effectively shepherd projects from ideation to release. We'll explore and discuss different tools and methodologies that can help make your project successful. Saunders will be premiering this session as one of the keynotes at Drupalcamp Austin. Saunders has worked in project management at a variety of shops ranging from the Western States Arts Federation as Senior Director of Technology, pingVision as Senior Web Producer, one of several Principals in Vintage Digital, and most recently as Director of Technology at Examiner.com. He writes at Dogstar.org regularly - mostly on the business of open source and Drupal. Harrison has developed and produced media, and managed people, and projects at companies such as Disney, Sony, ABC, CBS, Ninth House Network, OpenTV and pingVision. She is now Project Management Director at examiner.com.

Questions answered by this session: 
How do I help form client/employer expectations and then meet and exceed them?
How do I communicate effectively with stakeholders to ensure they understand process, progress, and necessary shifts in scope?
What tools and techniques can help a project management team dance the ballet of resource planning, allocation, and shifting?
How can I manage distributed and local teams effectively?
What does a blending of different project management processes effectively mean?
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N6NSmKxOayc


