Title: Accelerating Prototype to Commercial Device with Snapdragon and Ubuntu Core - Oksana Wilcox
Publication date: 2017-02-27
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2017
Description: 
	Accelerating Prototype to Commercial Device with Snapdragon and Ubuntu Core - Oksana Wilcox, Qualcomm Technologies & Kyle Fazzari, Canonical

This session will explore the life cycle of software on an IoT device, from prototype to commercial deployment and remote maintenance. The Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ embedded portfolio offers a range of solutions, from development platforms to commercial off-the-shelf modules, to help speed IoT device commercialization.  Using the DragonBoard™ 410c development board based on the Snapdragon 410E processor, this session illustrates how to quickly and easily package an entire software stack, from kernel to applications, for fast prototyping and beta testing using Ubuntu Core and snaps. The session will also demonstrate how to support and maintain the software for devices deployed in the field through trusted application stores with transactional updates and rollback.

About Kyle Fazzari
Kyle Fazzari is a software engineer on the snappy team at Canonical. His focus mostly revolves around Snapcraft and the snap developer experience. His background includes robotics, image processing, and embedded systems.

About Oksana Wilcox
Oksana Wilcox is a staff manager of product planning for Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., within the IoT (Internet of Things) business unit, where she is responsible for Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ embedded computing products.

Oksana has more than 19 years of experience in various business development, operations and product planning roles in the mobile and computing industries.

Prior to joining Qualcomm in 2005, she worked in Ericsson San Diego and Packet Video London, where she worked on various multimedia technology platforms.

Oksana holds a master’s degree in management in marketing from National University, San Diego.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KRZvtYPRSkY


