Title: Building Mixed Criticality Linux Systems with the Jailhouse Hypervisor - Ralf Ramsauer
Publication date: 2017-02-27
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2017
Description: 
	Building Mixed Criticality Linux Systems with the Jailhouse Hypervisor - Ralf Ramsauer, Technical University of Applied Sciences Regensburg & Jan Kiszka, Siemens AG

The partitioning hypervisor Jaihouse allows us to run safety critical and uncritical applications in parallel on a single SoC. We present our experiences when porting a safety and real-time critical existing application as a Jailhouse guest. It shows a novel and promising approach for implementing mixed-criticality applications with real-time requirement while not loosing the benefits of Linux. This is done by static partitioning of hardware resources; guests do not interfere.

We will present a multicopter platform running the real-time critical flight stack in an isolated Jailhouse guest. This proves the practicability of Jailhouse as well as the suitability for real-time safety critical systems by porting an existing application to a Jailhouse cell. We stress its concept and show up current hardware limitations, like undesired behaviour and present possible workarounds and solutions.

About Jan Kiszka
Jan Kiszka is working as consultant and senior software engineer in the Competence Center for Embedded Linux at Siemens Corporate Technology. He is supporting Siemens sectors with adapting and enhancing open source as platform for their products. For customer projects and whenever his spare time permits, he is contributing to open source projects, specifically in the area of real-time and virtualization.

About Ralf Ramsauer
Ralf Ramsauer is a PhD student at the University of Applied Sciences Regensburg where he works in a joint project together with Siemens Corporate Competence Center Embedded Linux. His academic research interests focus on finding successful long term maintenance strategies for Open Source Software in embedded industrial context. This covers the full software stack of embedded systems, from hardware-related low-level virtualisation technologies via kernel-space through to userland.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pvs0fv-gnvw


