Title: Keynote: Industrial IoT and Open Source: Opportunities and Challenges - Imad Sousou
Publication date: 2017-02-22
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: Industrial IoT and Open Source: Opportunities and Challenges - Imad Sousou, Vice President of the Software and Services Group, Intel Corporation

By 2020, analysts expect over 50 billion smart devices to be connected to the Internet, creating a significant opportunity for software developers, hardware makers and cloud providers alike. Orchestrating all those devices will pose significant challenges in privacy, scalability and security. Imad Sousou, vice president of the Open Source Technology Center at Intel Corporation will talk about the opportunities and challenges the industrial IoT landscape presents and how secure end-to-end open source solutions will drive this growing market forward. 

About Imad Sousou
Imad Sousou is vice president in the Software and Services Group at Intel Corporation and general manager of the Intel Open Source Technology Center, a position he’s held since its founding in 2003. Sousou is responsible for leading Intel's efforts in open source software across technologies and market segments: cloud operating system (OS) development, enterprise Linux and related technologies such as power and performance optimization, virtualization (KVM and Xen), FPGAs, and graphics; and core IoT system software such as Robot OS and Dronecode. The Center also focuses on enabling client OS stacks, including Android, Brillo and Chrome for Intel architecture, and developing custom OSes such as Yocto, Clear Linux, and Zephyr, as well as Linux kernel and related technologies designed to improve developer experience and web platform technologies on top of client systems. He sits on the board of directors at the OpenStack Foundation, the Open Connectivity Foundation, and Dronecode; he is on the advisory board for the Core Infrastructure Initiative at The Linux Foundation.

Sousou joined Intel in 1994 as a senior software engineer. Before moving into his current role, he was director of telecom software programs in the Intel Communications Group and director of software engineering in the Home Products Group. He began his career as a software engineer at Central Point Software working on system utilities for the Apple Mac OS. Intel has twice honored Sousou with the Intel Achievement Award; in 2007 for his role in the agreement with Sun Microsystems on Open Solaris, and in 2011 for leadership through open source solutions. Sousou holds a bachelor degree in computer science and mathematics from Portland State University.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pwc0cX43sec


