Title: War Story: Using Zephyr Project to Develop a Wearable Device - Fabien Parent, BayLibre
Publication date: 2017-02-27
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2017
Description: 
	War Story: Using Zephyr Project to Develop a Wearable Device - Fabien Parent, BayLibre

One year ago at ELC in San Diego, a new RTOS named Zephyr was announced as a Linux Foundation project. Zephyr is a small footprint OS positioned as the Linux of IoT. Few products are known to use Zephyr. As such it is hard to find good feedback on the strengths and weaknesses of the OS, or the real-world experience of building a consumer product with it.

Neil Armstrong and Fabien Parent from BayLibre have been working on what may be the first consumer electronics product using Zephyr. They will share their reasons for selecting Zephyr from among the many RTOS choices available. They will also share their experiences contributing support for a new platform into the upstream Zephyr project and using it as a base for product development of a new wearable device.

About Fabien Parent
Embedded Linux Engineer since 2008, Neil worked on designing and supporting small in-house designed SoCs for Digital TV Content Protection, Set-Top-Box or Security Co-Processor, and is now Embedded Linux Expert in the Baylibre team. He ports, maintains and upstreams Linux support for ARM/ARM64 based SoCs from basic system support, power management to multimedia drivers. Neil experienced technical presentations during his engineering studies and within local technical events about various Open-Source technologies.

Fabien Parent has 5 years of engineering experience in embedded technologies. Fabien spent over a year at Texas Instruments working in the ROM code team for the OMAP5 SoC. Afterward Fabien joined BayLibre and has been working on several products including Project Ara, Google’s modular phone. Fabien is now working on a wearable device that use Zephyr.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XUJK2htXxKw


