Title: Emil Bay: Hyperjournal - A tamper-proof publishing system
Publication date: 2017-05-19
Playlist: JSConf AU 2016
Description: 
	Thank you to Mozilla for making video recording possible.

Over the past several months I've been part of a project to unite 7 independent Syrian newspapers as one, to unite the war torn country. The project was supported by OTHER_A. Before the project the publishers, who are in excile in Turkey, would print their papers in Turkey, smuggle them over the border, hope they didn't get confiscated and hope the trucks would reach their destinaiton. The first iteration of the project has been developing a website and a digital strategy for the joint venture. Their story is interesting in and of itself, in how a design and development process has united the seven papers, who have wildely different policital views, but all agree on a peaceful and united Syria. However, I want to present something different.

Drawing on our experience from the project, and from our gained insight into how suppresed journalists work around the world, we've designed a new publishing model that hasn't been seen before on the web, due to browser limitations:

The integrity of the content, publisher and source can be verified though cryptography signing and PKI-based authentication methods
The content can be distributed using uncommon transports; p2p, BLE, LAN
All content is served from static sources, minimizing the attack surface (eg. state sponsored hackers, political opponents)
In several conflicts, government control and censorship of media outlets and communication channels has allowed the spread of propaganda and supression of free, critical thinking, undermining the foundation of democracy. Making it impossible to forge information as to appear from a trusted source is a vital step in this process.

This talk aims to outline the new web technologies, cryptographic primitives and human processes that allow freedom of speech in countries where journalists, whistle-blowers and activists still don't enjoy the freedom we have come to assume in the Western world.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nGDbUIMCMq4


