Title: CppCon 2018: Steven Simpson “Source Instrumentation for Monitoring C++ in Production”
Publication date: 2018-10-12
Playlist: CppCon 2018
Description: 
	http://CppCon.org
—
Presentation Slides, PDFs, Source Code and other presenter materials are available at: https://github.com/CppCon/CppCon2018
—
It is essential to discuss how modern C++ code can be effectively instrumented, in order to effectively monitor it after deployment. This talk will focus on portable source instrumentation techniques such as logging, tracing and metrics. Straightforward, but well designed code additions can drastically ease the troubleshooting of functional issues, and identification of performance bottlenecks, in production. 

Of course when dealing with C++ performance is often critical, and so minimizing the cost of any instrumentation is also critical. Key to this is understanding the trade-off between the detail of information collected, and the overheads of exposing that information. It is also important to understand how best to benefit from advances in contemporary monitoring infrastructure, popularised by "cloud" environments. 

This talk will open with a brief summary of monitoring goals, infrastructure, benefits, and existing practise. It will then detail practicalities of building a set of C++ source instrumentation primitives, based on proven principles employed in demanding production software.
— 
Steven Simpson, Graphcore
Senior Software Engineer

Hardware verification engineer, turned software engineer, turned infrastructure engineer. Most recently involved with developing monitoring systems for supercomputers at a well known university, but with over ten years experience spanning a wide range of software engineering problems using C++, and occasionally other languages. This has ranged from developing firmware for high-performance network switches, building distributed SQL databases, and deploying HPC infrastructure. 

Working as an ASIC verification engineer has led to an unhealthy paranoia when it comes testing software. Having lost many hours debugging deadlocks and memory corruptions, is most content when able to solve complex problems with the intelligible, uncomplicated code which is easily understood by others. 

Currently working on real-time video transcoding software, manipulating data streams at over 10Gbps, with strict performance and uptime requirements. Previously a speaker at ACCU, NDC Oslo, FOSDEM, PGDay Paris, PGDay Brussels conferences on various topics around software development, databases and infrastructure. Now living in Norway having moved from the UK, primarily for the better weather. 
—
Videos Filmed & Edited by Bash Films: http://www.BashFilms.com
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0WgC5jnrRx8


