Title: CppCon 2018: "Compiling Multi-Million Line C++ Code Bases Effortlessly with the Meson Build System"
Publication date: 2018-10-09
Playlist: CppCon 2018
Description: 
	http://CppCon.org

Jussi Pakkanen
"Compiling Multi-Million Line C++ Code Bases Effortlessly with the Meson Build System"
—
Presentation Slides, PDFs, Source Code and other presenter materials are available at: https://github.com/CppCon/CppCon2018
—
The Meson build system is a fresh build system designed from the ground up to solve the build problems of today. It is currently seeing growing adoption across many domains and is already being used to build large chunks of most modern Linux distributions. One of the main reasons for this is Meson's heavy focus on usability, meaning that build definitions are both powerful and easy to understand. 

In this talk we shall look into the design and use of Meson from the ground up going up all the way to projects with millions of lines of code and complex build setups such as code generators and cross compilation. We shall especially examine the problem of dependencies and how Meson solves this age old problem with a composable design that supports both system provided and self built dependencies from the same build definition. Finally we will examine the multi-language support of Meson for easily combining C++ with other languages such as Java, C#, D and Python.
— 
Jussi Pakkanen, Consultant
Jussi Pakkanen is the creator and project lead of the Meson build system. He is currently working as a consultant. He has experience in many different fields of computing ranging from slot machines to mail sorting, computer security, Linux desktop development and gaming. His free time has been equally colorful, including things such as comics and illustration, directing movies, music and electronics. When not working on projects he might be found watching bad movies, especially sci-fi and the finest of trash from the 80s.
—
Videos Filmed & Edited by Bash Films: http://www.BashFilms.com
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SCZLnopmYBM


