Title: Copyleft V. Copyright : Why we should use copy left rather than copyright? [Hindi]
Publication date: 2021-03-20
Playlist: miniDebConf India 2021
Description: 
	by Radhika Jhalani
by Apurva Singh

At: MiniDebConf India 2021
https://in2021.mini.debconf.org/talks/27-copyleft-v-copyright-why-we-should-use-copy-left-rather-than-copyright-hindi/

Copyright refers to a legal right that enables an exclusive legal right to reproduce, sell, publish or distribute any literary, dramatic, musical, artistic work in any form. This would also mean that any entity apart from the copyright owner cannot use the copyrighted material without prior consent. Copyleft on the other hand recognizing the ownership of the creator lets other entities freely distribute the copies as well as the modifications of the original work granted that the same rights be given for the derivative works henceforth. Copyleft is a protective license that aims to strike a balance between protecting the rights of the creator as well as making information freely available for furthering knowledge. Copyleft is a great way of ensuring that work always remains free.      We will be taking the audience through using copyleft instead of copyright and why copyleft is a better alternative to be used. 
We will be demonstrating on how various copyleft means can be used as Creative commons licencing. 
The idea behind a Creative Commons licence is that there should be a free distribution of work which can allow for increased knowledge sharing. Works under Creative Commons licences allow for a more enriched public domain. It forms a part of copyleft philosophy. A Creative Commons license also helps in furthering the ideology of open access. Open access can help in reimagining research by opening the doors, the first step in this is allowing for free distribution of work.
Outcome 
Through this talk, we intend to reach out to developers, technologists, and students of technology-based in Hindi speaking regions. Through this talk, we expect to:
Educate the audience about the difference between copyright and copyleft licenses; 
Software licenses and rights granted herein in the context of copyright and copyleft licenses; 
Permissive licenses and protective share-alike licenses (copyleft); 
Application of Copyleft and its types and relation to other licenses

Room: Rex
Scheduled start: 2021-01-23 17:00:00
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hZjY45Ka1lY


