Title: Flock 2016 - Diversity - women in open source, Amita Sharma
Publication date: 2016-08-21
Playlist: Flock 2016
Description: 
	(This recording was on a laptop with a defective microphone. Unfortunately, it does not seem like the audio is able to be restored. Please refer to the slides and transcription for the talk, if available.)

My paper will highlight different aspect of diversity and how fedora is supporting diversity in all terms.

It's wonderful to be a woman. Women have been participating in social, political, economic, cultural, and technological fields for many decades and it's time to push it further. Even if Fedora has a rising number of women participating actively in our community, we aim to increase this number by creating and encouraging programs where women interested in IT can develop their personal and technical skills and make a path for themselves in the IT field.

Every activity counts, like running workshops for schoolgirls in undeserved areas or reaching out to college women to spread knowledge about open source. We can share information about many great groups and opportunities, such as OpenHatch, Women in Drupal, PyLadies, Outreachy and Google Summer of Code. There are so many great outreach programs for women in open source, and we just need to spread the knowledge and motivate women out there to join the movement. We can point people to the resources created for supporting women in open source by the Ada Initiative during its existence from 2011 to 2015, and more resources available on the Geek Feminism wiki. There are lots of things to do, and it is not just coding in fact, you can do many different and exciting things to contribute to open source, such as writing, documentation, design, translation, testing, and more.

We can have a helping-pyramid where each Fedora woman can be a mentor of two more women, and once they feel comfortable enough, each one can be a mentor for two more women, and thus continue the work to make our numbers grow.

https://flock2016.sched.org/event/76nj/diversity-women-in-open-source

This video was recorded at the annual Fedora contributor conference, Flock, in Kraków, Poland, from August 2-5, 2016. You can learn more about Flock at https://flocktofedora.org.

#FlockToFedora

Slides: https://speakerdeck.com/ami_117/women-in-opensource
Transcription: https://meetbot.fedoraproject.org/fedora-flock-openqa/2016-08-03/flock2016.2016-08-03-14.36.log.html
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qp0EMGovSnc


