Title: OSDC 2016: Inspecting Security of Docker formatted Container Images by Ján Lieskovský
Publication date: 2016-05-04
Playlist: OSDC 2016 | Open Source Data Center Conference
Description: 
	The presented article will target inspection of security of (un)official Docker formatted container images approaching the resulting safety of the image from two PoVs:

examining image content for presence of known security flaws (vulnerability assessment),
and validation if the internal software and service(s) encapsulated within the image are configured according to commonly-accepted recommendations as defined in security baselines (security hardening).
Starting with reasoning why Docker images security matters, we will proceed to outline architectural concepts Docker images are based on. Subsequently compare these concepts with building blocks used by design of today's virtual machines, and point out areas (main differences) to take care of when container image security is primary concern. We will use the observations from this comparison to emphasize the need to inspect both content of container images themselves, but also the security configuration of the hosting computer in order to reach truly secure infrastructure. We will introduce the section of inspecting security of container images with providing overview of recent effort to implement image signing and verification. Afterwards we will demonstrate inspection of a concrete container image against currently known security flaws, and explain how this approach can be automated and generalized. Thereafter we will focus on examination if software and service(s) included in the container image meet commonly-known requirements for secure configuration. An illustration example how to detect e.g. an unauthorized executable in the container content will be provided. In the part dedicated to securing of the hosting computer we will show it is possible to fully automate this task too. We will conclude with sketching, where development in this area might be heading in the future (features that might be available to strengthen the security of container images even more).
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jTZWY9ANPQg


