Title: Open System Firmware Projects - Elaine Palmer, IBM Research
Publication date: 2018-08-31
Playlist: Linux Security Summit North America 2018 - Vancouver
Description: 
	Open System Firmware Projects - Elaine Palmer, IBM Research

Three industry groups are pursuing the goal of creating open source system firmware. They seek to improve the openness, portability, security, and maintainability of boot firmware, device firmware, and system management firmware. A panel of passionate trailblazers will describe their efforts and the groups and organizations supporting them.

About Elaine Palmer
Elaine Palmer is a Senior Technical Staff Member at the Thomas J. Watson Research Center, and a member of the IBM Academy of Technology. Her research interests are in operating system and firmware security, and security evaluations of software. Her accomplishments include the world's first level 4 certificate under FIPS 140-1 for a tamper-responding secure coprocessor for servers, and the first smart card cryptographic library to be validated at EAL5+ under the Common Criteria. Mrs. Palmer has a BS in computer science from Louisiana State University and an MS in computer science from Pace University. She is a member of the IEEE and a Distinguished Engineer in the ACM, and holds fourteen patents.

About Bryan Kelly
Bryan Kelly is a Principle Firmware Engineering Manager for Microsoft’s Azure Cloud Server Infrastructure team. Bryan supports Microsoft’s cloud services by designing and developing firmware that enables hardware solutions in Microsoft’s next generation cloud platforms. During Bryan’s 12 year tenure at Microsoft his work has spanned data center design, data center control systems, UEFI, BMC, systems manageability, firmware architecture and security design.

About Nate Klein
Nate Klein is a hardware engineer on the Platforms Infrastructure team that designs and deploys all of the hardware that powers Google's internal and cloud services.  In 6 years at Google his work includes NIC drivers and firmware, server and PCIe card design, and hardware security (Titan).  Nate also enjoys SCUBA diving, table top games, and animals.

About Ron Minnich
Ron Minnich is the inventor of LinuxBIOS, now known as coreboot. He is a member of the Technical Steering Committee for LinuxBoot, as well as co-leader of the Open Systems Firmware project at the Open Compute Project. 

He has worked in firmware for 40 years and in the open source firmware area for 20. He started the LinuxBoot project in January 2017, and it became a Linux Foundation project in December 2017. LinuxBoot is now being deployed at many companies. Ron has contributed to many open source operating systems, including FreeBSD, Plan 9, and Linux.

His most recent talk for the Linux Foundation was "Replace your exploit-ridden firmware with a Linux kernel" at the ELC in 2017.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MnqRbBGGfIs


