Title: [2016] Virtualization Developer Panel
Publication date: 2016-09-01
Playlist: KVM Forum 2016
Description: 
	A panel discussion with current active contributors to (and maintainers of) KVM, QEMU, and libvirt (and related Virtualization infrastructure projects).

Topics were chosen on the spot from areas including security, new hardware features, and development process.


Stefan Hajnoczi
Red Hat, Principal Software Engineer

Stefan Hajnoczi has contributed to QEMU since 2010. He currently co-maintains the QEMU block layer together with Kevin Wolf. Now at Red Hat and previously at IBM's Linux Technology Center, Stefan has worked on disk image formats, storage migration, multi-core device emulation, and I/O performance optimization in QEMU. He also maintains the QEMU tracing subsystem and co-maintains the QEMU net subsystem, and is organization administrator for QEMU's Google Summer of Code and Outreachy involvement.

Daniel Berrange
Red Hat
Software Engineer

Daniel is a Principal Software Engineer, working in a variety of roles at Red Hat over the last 12 years. Since 2006, he has been specialized in the development of technologies related to virtualization management, as lead developer of Libvirt, GTK-VNC, Libvirt Perl, Libvirt GObject and Libvirt Sandbox, and contributor to the Xen, KVM, oVirt and OpenStack projects. Daniel is a passionate believer in the value of open source software and the benefits it brings to the world. Outside of his day job at Red Hat, he is also maintainer of the DBus Perl binding and the Entangle remote camera control & capture software.

Paolo Bonzini
Red Hat, Senior Principal Software Engineer

Paolo Bonzini works on virtualization for Red Hat, where he is a Senior Principal Software Engineer. He is currently the maintainer of the KVM hypervisor and a contributor and submaintainer for QEMU.

Andrew Honig
Tech Lead - Cloud Platform Security, Google

Den Lunev
Team Lead, Virtuozzo
Denis Lunev has started his work for Virtuozzo (ex Parallels, ex SWsoft) more than 15 years ago. From that time he has dealt with Linux namespaces for Virtuozzo, OpenVZ, Linux containers. The next big bit of work was devices emulation for Parallels Desktop and Parallels Server, proprietary virtualization products for Mac and Linux. Now he is the lead of the team in Virtuozzo supporting QEMU/KVM.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S6Sjj6OtyvY


