Title: Building .NET Core Microservices with Steeltoe - Zach Brown & Matthew Horan, Pivotal
Publication date: 2017-09-13
Playlist: Open Source Summit North America 2017
Description: 
	Building .NET Core Microservices with Steeltoe - Zach Brown & Matthew Horan, Pivotal

The software world is moving to microservices. For all their benefits, microservice architectures expose many distributed computing problems that developers need to solve--problems like service discovery, shared configuration, distributed tracing, etc. The good news is that Netflix, Spring Cloud, and others have developed industry standard patterns to simplify the task of building resilient scale-out microservice-based applications. Until very recently, however, this technology has really only been accessible to Java devs. Steeltoe is a new OSS project that makes these patterns available to .NET developers.

In this presentation, we will provide an overview of Steeltoe and why we created it. We will cover current capabilities, future roadmap, and of course, demos that show how it works.

http://steeltoe.io
https://github.com/steeltoeoss
twitter: @steeltoeoss

About Zach Brown
Zach Brown starting building web sites in the 90s using Netscape-optimized HTML, cgi, and lots of Photoshop lens flares. He spent many years as an enterprise software developer in the Microsoft ecosystem, and now works at Pivotal in San Francisco as a customer-facing Product Owner for Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Steeltoe.

About Matthew Horan
Matthew Horan has spent over a decade developing Web applications. Before becoming a developer, he worked as a systems administrator at various startups and hosting providers. Having worked with just about every configuration management tool, and being a developer by trade, he was naturally drawn to Cloud Foundry. He has focused on .NET due to a desire to bring the best practices of Pivotal's Cloud Foundry platform to a wider audience.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qItci8lLgJw


