Title: Keynote: How Open Source Powers the Cloud to the Edge - Imad Sousou
Publication date: 2017-09-12
Playlist: Open Source Summit North America 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: How Open Source Powers the Cloud to the Edge - Imad Sousou, Vice President and General Manager, Software & Services Group, Intel

As we move toward a world where everything is smart and connected, there is a massive flood of data. This considerable growth requires the data center to analyze and transform data at an unprecedented scale. These transformations are powered by an end-to-end infrastructure from the cloud and data center, the network, and the Internet of Things (IoT), and are bound together by connectivity. Imad Sousou, Vice President of the Software and Services Group, and General Manager Open Source Technology Center at Intel Corporation, will highlight how we connect devices to the cloud, how edge computing accelerates the digital transformation, and how other open source software supports our rapidly changing world.

About Imad Sousou
Imad Sousou is vice president in the Software and Services Group at Intel Corporation and general manager of the Intel Open Source Technology Center, a position he's held since its founding in 2003. Sousou is responsible for Intel's efforts in open source software across a wide range of technologies and market segments, including enterprise Linux and related technologies such as virtualization, data center, and cloud software; embedded market segments; and client Linux programs. The Center also focuses on operating system (OS) stacks, including Android and Chrome OS for Intel architecture and Yocto, in addition to Linux kernel and related projects, user experience, and Web and HTML5 technologies on top of client operating systems. He sits on the board of directors at the OpenStack Foundation and is on the advisory board for the Core Infrastructure Initiative at The Linux Foundation.
Sousou joined Intel in 1994 as a senior software engineer. Before moving into his current role, he was director of telecom software programs in the Intel Communications Group and director of client software engineering in the Home Products Group. He began his career as a software engineer at Central Point Software working on system utilities for the Apple Mac OS.
Sousou holds a bachelor degree in computer science and mathematics from Portland State University.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1O6km7_BY8o


