Title: Panel Discussion: Are Containers the Future of IaaS? - Moderated by Bruno Cornec
Publication date: 2017-09-12
Playlist: Open Source Summit North America 2017
Description: 
	Panel Discussion: Are Containers the Future of IaaS? - Moderated by Bruno Cornec, Hewlett Packard Enterprise with Simona Arsene, Jerome Petazzoni, David Flanders

The OpenStack project, one of the major Open Source IaaS solution is now 7 years old and see some major old-timers contributors changing strategies, as well as a new focus around containers, which are themselves pushed by newer companies such as Docker 4 years old. Come to this session to listen to our panelists debating around the future of Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS):
- What is the role of bare-metal, virtualization, containers ?
- What are IaaS customers looking after in the coming years ?
- What is the best approach for Cloud Native Applications? Legacy ones ?

With representatives from the OpenStack project, the Docker project, distribution vendors and hardware vendors, this roundtable should give you the answers to these questions and more.

About Bruno Cornec  
Bruno Cornec has been managing various Unix systems since 1987 and Linux since 1993 (0.99pl14). Bruno first worked 8 years around Software Engineering and Configuration Management Systems in Unix environments. Since 1995, he is Open Source and Linux (OSL) Strategist and Evangelist, initially for an HPE reseller and now for Hewlett Packard Enterprise directly in the Customer Innovation Center. Bruno is also HPE WW Linux Community Lead. Bruno is a contributor in various OSL projects: MondoRescue, Mageia, LinuxCOE, Tellico, FOSSology, collectl, Pause. He is also project leader for MondoRescue (GPL disaster recovery solution), project-builder.org (GPL build service), UUWL (GPL porting library). As part of his work he has made numerous presentations for LinuxCon (EMEA and NA), Linux.Conf.au, OSCON, Fosdem, Paris OSS Bruno also likes early music, singing and playing recorder

About Jerome Petazzoni
Jerome works at Docker, where he helps others to containerize all the things. In another life he built clouds when EC2 was just the name of a plane, developed a GIS to deploy dark fiber through the French subway, managed commando deployments of large-scale video streaming systems in bandwidth-constrained environments such as conference centers, operated and scaled the dotCloud PAAS, and other feats of technical wizardry. When annoyed he threatens to replace things with a very small shell script.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xb32P_VWh7w


