Title: Panel Discussion: Containers and Networking: A Symbiotic Relationship - Moderated by Phil Robb
Publication date: 2017-09-14
Playlist: Open Source Summit North America 2017
Description: 
	Panel Discussion: Containers and Networking: A Symbiotic Relationship - Moderated by Phil Robb, Open Daylight Project

As cloud adoption grows, containers are increasingly being used to simplify deployment of distributed applications. Ironically, the mix of container deployment models ranging from VM to bare metal, as well as the need to manage overlay container networks independently but synchronously with the underlay, create a new thicket of networking complexity to navigate. 

This panel will discuss topics including:
An overview of containers and container networking
Special requirements vs networking business as usual
Best practices for deploying containers using SDN and NFV
Various approaches to container networking and how ONAP and other approaches to cloud orchestration can integrate with Container Orchestration Engines including Kubernetes and Docker Swarm

About Philip Robb
Phil Robb is interim executive director of OpenDaylight, an open source platform for SDN and NFV. Phil is a widely respected expert in the area of open source strategy, business impact, and governance. He is frequently asked to speak at international technology and business events and he has been consulted by policy makers including the European Commission, and the United States Department of Justice as well as numerous high technology trade organizations. Prior to joining the OpenDaylight, Phil was the director of HP’s Open Source Program Office where he had responsibility for HP’s corporate open source strategy, engagement with the open source community, oversight of the Open Source Review Board, and a variety of software development projects. Phil was focused on open source at HP from 2001 through 2012.

About Patrick Chanezon
Patrick Chanezon is member of technical staff at Docker Inc. He helps to build Docker, an open platform for distributed applications for developers and sysadmins. Software developer and storyteller, he spent 10 years building platforms at Netscape & Sun, then 10 years evangelizing platforms at Google, VMware & Microsoft. His main professional interest is in building and kickstarting the network effect for these wondrous two-sided markets called Platforms.

About Swarna Podila
Swarna Podila leads the product marketing function at Avi Networks. Prior to Avi Networks, Podila has led product marketing functions at smaller organizations such as Mocana and large enterprises such as Citrix and Symantec. Podila feels strongly about diversity and strives to bring diversity of thought, culture, and gender into workplace. In her free time, Podila loves reading books; thrillers, murder mysteries, science fiction, and personal development are her favorite genres.

About Josh Wood
Josh Wood’s passion for the rkt container runtime led him to CoreOS, where he is responsible for documentation. He enjoys photographing polydactyl cats and writing short autobiographies.

About Chris Wright
Chris Wright is the Vice President and Chief Technologist at Red Hat. During his nearly 20 years as a software engineer he has worked in the telecom industry on high availability and distributed systems and in the Linux industry on security and virtualization. He has been a Linux developer for over a decade, most of that time spent deep in the Linux kernel working on security and virtualization.  He is intrigued by the challenges that cloud computing brings to virtualization and networking, and is now focused on the cloud, KVM, network virtualization, and virtualizing network functions.  He lives in sunny Portland, OR where he is happily hacking on OpenDaylight, Open vSwitch, and OpenStack.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TNmF4qDOyNA


