Title: What You Should Know about Etcd v3 - Paul Burt & Elsie Phillips, CoreOS
Publication date: 2017-09-13
Playlist: Open Source Summit North America 2017
Description: 
	What You Should Know about Etcd v3 - Paul Burt & Elsie Phillips, CoreOS

Description
With Kubernetes 1.6, etcd v3 becomes the preferred storage backbone of every Kubernetes cluster. Do you know what’s changed? How to recover from failures? This talk is a look at what’s new to etcd v3. It will act as a refresher on what failure scenarios admins need to be mindful of, in order to keep their cluster safe. 

Abstract
The most notable change to etcd v3 is the introduction of gRPC. We’ll talk about why the change was made and how it affects the old REST API. Did you know that HTTP and gRPC are namespaced differently? You will after this talk, and you’ll also discover what implications it has for running your cluster. 

After covering changes, we’ll take a look at common failure scenarios for etcd. We’ll discuss common misconceptions about leader election. We’ll explore the risks associated with 3 node cluster vs a 9 node, and a regional cluster vs a global. Finally, we’ll end with a live demo of how to backup your cluster, and restore from said backup.

This talk is applicable to any developer that relies on an etcd backed platform. That includes Kubernetes, and many other cloud native projects. Only a glancing familiarity with etcd and distributed consensus are required.

About Paul Burt
Paul Burt is a Community Manager at CoreOS. He’s upvoting your /r/kubernetes threads and answering your #coreos questions on freeNode. Paul has a knack for and demystifying infrastructure, and making gnarly, complex topics approachable. He enjoys home brewing beer, reading independent comics, and yelling at his computer when it doesn’t do what he wants.

About Elsie Phillips
Elsie herds the CoreOS Community and Co-Leads the Kubernetes Contributor Experience SIG. She's a northwest native who got her start in open source working at the Oregon State University Open Source Lab. In her free time she throws wild one woman dance parties and makes a mean vegan chocolate chip cookie.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ehNE_apQ8w0


