Title: LPC2018 - P4C-XDP: Programming the Linux Kernel Forwarding Plane Using P4
Publication date: 2018-12-04
Playlist: LPC2018 - Networking Track
Description: 
	url:  https://linuxplumbersconf.org/event/2/contributions/97/
speaker:   Fabian Ruffy (University of British Columbia),  Mihai Budiu (VMware),  William Tu (VMware)


The eXpress Data Path (XDP) is a new kernel-feature, intended to provide 
fast packet processing as close as possible to device hardware. XDP 
builds on top of the extended Berkely Packet Filter (eBPF) and allows 
users to write a C-like packet processing program, which can be attached 
to the device driver’s receiving queue. When the device observes an 
incoming packet, the user-defined XDP program is triggered to execute on 
the packet payload, making the decision as early as possible before 
handing the packet down the processing pipeline.

P4 is a domain-specific language describing how packets are processed by 
the data plane of a programmable network elements, including network 
interface cards, appliances, and virtual switches. It provides an 
abstraction that allows programmers to express existing and future 
protocol format without coupling it to any data plane specific 
knowledge. The language is explicitly designed to be protocol-agnostic. 
A P4 programmer can write their own protocols and load the P4 program 
into P4-capable network elements.
As high-level networking language, P4 supports a diverse set of compiler 
backends and also possesses the capability to express eBPF and XDP programs.

We present P4C-XDP, a new backend for the P4 compiler. P4C-XDP leverages 
XDP to aim for a high performance software data plane. The backend 
generates a eBPF-compliant C representation from a given P4 program 
which is passed to clang and llvm to produce the bytecode. Using 
conventional eBPF kernel hooks the program can then be loaded into the 
eBPF virtual machine in the device driver. The kernel verifier 
guarantees the safety of the generated code. Any packets 
received/transmitted from/to this device driver now trigger the 
execution of the loaded P4 program.

The P4C-XDP project is an open source project hosted at 
https://github.com/vmware/p4c-xdp/. We provide prove-of-concept sample 
code under the tests directory, which contains a couple of examples such 
as basic protocol parsing, checksum recalculation, multiple tables 
lookups, and tunnel protocol en-/decapsulation.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r_P5pKNFNHY


