Title: Keynote: Open Networking 2.0 – Raising the Game for the Networking Industry - Gavin Cato, Dell EMC
Publication date: 2018-03-29
Playlist: Open Networking Summit North America 2018
Description: 
	Keynote: Open Networking 2.0 – Raising the Game for the Networking Industry - Gavin Cato, Senior Vice President, Network Development Engineering, Dell EMC

If you haven’t heard Networking is back in the game and cool again invigorated by open standards, open source and open communities of innovation. It started by disaggregating networking hardware and software. We call that Open Networking 1.0. But the Networking industry is not standing still and neither is Dell EMC. Come hear Gavin Cato, Sr. Vice President Engineering Dell EMC Networking, share Dell EMC’s plans to raise the Open Networking bar once again for the industry with Open Networking 2.0. Come listen and get in the game with us.

About Gavin Cato
Gavin Cato serves as the Senior Vice President of Development Engineering for Networking at Dell EMC.  In this role, he is responsible for the worldwide hardware and software engineering teams that research, design, and develop networking solutions for data center, campus, and service provider customers. He has been instrumental in establishing Dell EMC’s Open Networking and OpenSwitch approach in the transformation to disaggregated networking solutions.

Gavin came to Dell in 2013 from Extreme Networks where he was responsible for global Engineering.  During his tenure, Gavin led initiatives to improve the velocity of development, solution quality, and engineering process efficiency.  Earlier in his career, Gavin has served in a number of key executive positions, including Vice President of Market Development and Corporate Strategy, Vice President of Strategic Solutions, and Vice President of Product Management and Product Marketing at Tekelec and Vice President of Product Management at Arsenal Digital Solutions.  Prior to joining Arsenal Digital Solutions, Gavin worked with Nortel Networks, IBM, Duke University Medical Center, and military contracting companies.

Gavin received his BS and MS in electrical engineering and his MBA from Duke University where he later served on the Industrial Board of Advisors for the Fitzpatrick Photonics Center.  He also received his Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from North Carolina State University where he developed algorithm scheduling techniques for digital signal processing algorithms on VLSI architectures.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eozh9dErmxc


