Title: Keynote Panel: SDN@10
Publication date: 2018-03-29
Playlist: Open Networking Summit North America 2018
Description: 
	Keynote Panel: SDN@10 - Wendy Cartee, Sr. Director, Marketing, Cloud Native Applications, VMware; Guru Parulkar, Executive Director, Open Networking Foundation; Nick McKeown, Co-Founder of Barefoot Networks; Chris Wright, VP & CTO, Red Hat

About Wendy Cartee
Wendy Cartee is senior director of product and technical marketing for Cloud-Native Applications at VMware where she leads marketing initiatives for container-based solutions. Prior to VMware, she led product management and marketing at companies such as Cisco Systems, HP, and Juniper Networks where she drove products for Internet routing, data center software, and cloud services. An avid open source advocate, Wendy helped create IO Visor Project, a Linux Foundation project for in-kernel tracing, security, and networking. Wendy has also worked with open source communities such as Cloud Foundry Foundation, Cloud Native Computing Foundation, Open Container Initiative, OpenStack, and Open Networking Foundation. 

About Nick McKeown
Nick McKeown has been a Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Stanford University since 1995. In 2005 he started the Clean Slate Program at Stanford, which with Martin Casado and Scott Shenker led to "Software Defined Networking". He co-founded Nicira (now part of VMware), Abrizio and Nemo ("Network Memory", now part of Cisco), as well as ONF, ON.Lab and P4.org. In 2013 he co-founded Barefoot Networks, where he is Chairman and Chief Scientist. His current passion is to move the network data-plane from fixed-function hardware up and into software where it belongs. He hopes this will foster much faster innovation in networking, and finally hand over the keys to those who own and operate networks, to customize them to best suit their needs.

About Guru Parulkar
Guru Parulkar is a consulting professor of electrical engineering and the executive director of the Open Network Research Center (ONRC) at Stanford University. He is also the executive director and event chair of the Open Networking Summit. From 2007 to 2012, he was the execuitve director of the Clean Slate Internet Design Program at Stanford, whose mission was “to explore what kind of Internet we would design if we were to start with a clean slate and 20-30 years of hindsight.” Clean Slate led to OpenFlow and SDN among other interesting research results.Prior to Clean Slate, Guru was program director at the National Science Foundation and led creation of a few exciting programs including GENI (Global Environment for Network Innovation), FIND (Future Internet Design) and Network of Sensor Systems. He received NSF’s Program Management Excellence award.Guru co-founded and served as CTO and board member of Growth Networks (acquired by Cisco), Tenaya Networks (went out of business), and Sceos (became Ruckus Wireless and IPO’d). Guru worked at Cisco, as senior manager, HFR/CRS business units and new markets and technologies, and NEA as EIR, where he received their entrepreneurship award for Growth Networks. He started his career at Washington University in St. Louis, where he led research and prototyping of high performance networking and multimedia systems.He served on the board of NetSift (acquired by Cisco), was an early investor in Mocana, Nicira (acquired by VMWare) and Kumu Networks. He got his PhD from University of Delaware and has received their Alumni Outstanding Achievement Award and Frank A. Pehrson Graduate Student Achievement Award. Check out http://parulkar.com for more information. 

About Chris Wright
Chris Wright is Vice President and Chief Technology Officer at Red Hat. Chris leads the Office of the CTO, which is responsible for incubating emerging technologies and developing forward-looking perspectives on innovations such as artificial intelligence, cloud computing, distributed storage, software defined networking and network functions virtualization, containers, automation and continuous delivery, and distributed ledger.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pA0cdH6RoMQ


