Title: Keynote: What a Year for Networking, Where Do We Head Next? - Jim Zemlin & Arpit Joshipura
Publication date: 2018-03-28
Playlist: Open Networking Summit North America 2018
Description: 
	Keynote: What a Year for Networking, Where Do We Head Next? - Jim Zemlin, Executive Director and Arpit Joshipura, GM of Networking, The Linux Foundation

About Arpit Joshipura
Arpit brings over 25 years of networking expertise and vision to The Linux Foundation with technical depth and business breadth. He has instrumented and led major industry disruptions across Enterprises, Carriers and Cloud architectures including IP, Broadband, Optical, Mobile, Routing, Switching, L4-7, Cloud, Disaggregation, SDN/NFV, Open Networking and has been an early evangelist for open source. Arpit has served as CMO/VP in startups and larger enterprises including Prevoty, Dell/Force10, Ericsson/Redback, ONI/CIENA and BNR/Nortel leading strategy, product management, marketing, engineering and technology standards functions. 

About Jim Zemlin
Jim Zemlin’s career spans three of the largest technology trends to rise over the last decade: mobile computing, cloud computing, and open source software. Today, as executive director of The Linux Foundation, he uses this experience to accelerate innovation in technology through the use of open source and Linux.

At The Linux Foundation, Jim works with the world’s largest technology companies, including IBM, Intel, Google, Samsung, Qualcomm, and others to help define the future of computing on the server, in the cloud, and on a variety of mobile computing devices. His work at the vendor-neutral Linux Foundation gives him a unique and aggregate perspective on the global technology industry.
Jim has been recognized for his insights on the changing economics of the technology industry, and he is a regular keynote speaker at industry events. He advises a variety of startups, including Splashtop, and sits on the boards of the Global Economic Symposium, Open Source For America, and Chinese Open Source Promotion Union.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eY2cHHMzOZw


