Title: Keynote Panel: SDN NFV Deployment Progress - Ecosystem Perspective
Publication date: 2018-03-28
Playlist: Open Networking Summit North America 2018
Description: 
	Keynote Panel: SDN/NFV Deployment Progress - Ecosystem Perspective - Ayush Sharma, Reliance Jio; Ron Haberman, Nokia Software; Alla Goldner, Amdocs; Jehanne Savi, Orange; Adan Pope, Ciena; Chris Rice, AT&T

About Alla Goldner
A member of ONAP’s Technical Steering Committee (TSC) and the chair of ONAP’s Use-case Subcommittee, Alla Goldner also leads all ONAP activities and internal decision-making at Amdocs – a $3.7 billion revenue (2017), 25,000-employee company providing software and services to the world’s leading communications and media businesses. Her responsibilities include defining and implementing Amdocs’ ONAP strategy, working directly with ONAP members from service providers, vendors and partners, and playing a key role in Amdocs’ TSC. Her current focus is NFV and SDN network evolution, and in particular, the standardization and open-source domains.  

About Ron Haberman
A seasoned entrepreneur, Ron Haberman is Vice President of Nokia's Emerging Products unit within the Nokia Software Business Group. The Emerging Products unit incubates and nurtures early stage business into fully established product units, which span Cognitive Intelligence, Digital Operations, Digital Experience, and Digital Networks. Product Units include Security, Cloud, SON, IOT and Digital Sales. Emerging products systematically drives a pipeline of innovation and seed investment with its internal Intrapreneurship project.

About Adan K. Pope
Adan Pope is currently Chief Information Technology Officer for Ciena. Adan is responsible for the overall vision and technology strategy for the software and solutions business encompassing Ciena's software platforms and delivery practices. He works with the Software and Services leadership team as well as the CTO team to drive industry-leading technology and value leadership and spearheads Ciena’s strategic engagement with key customers, partners, and other external stakeholders. Prior to transitioning into his current role, he was Chief Industry Architect for Ciena’s office of the Chief Technology Officer. 

About Chris Rice
Chris Rice is senior vice president of AT&T Labs. He is responsible for delivering the architecture and design of Domain 2.0, the software-centric AT&T network. This transformation uses software-defined networking and network function virtualization to make AT&T’s network faster, simpler, and more scalable.

About Jehanne Savi
Jehanne Savi is currently leading 2 strategic programs for Orange worldwide aiming respectively at the all-IP transformation of the services and networks, and at the industrialization of new on-demand offers on the network layer as well as on the service layer thanks to the virtualization and automatization promises (i.e. NFV&SDN). Besides, she is a board member of French INRIA.
Previously, she was executive director of the online channels within Orange France. As such she was responsible for the business development of the digital customer relationship, in terms of usage adoption and channel share as well as in terms of new self-service offering ; she has been an active stakeholder of the SOSH™ launch whose products are a web exclusivity.

About Ayush Sharma
As an SVP of Engineering & Technology, Ayush serves a vital, twofold role balancing advanced technology development and managing large-scale new technologies deployment and operations, leading to the creation of new values sustaining substantial revenue. In this role, he is responsible for shaping the future direction of the World's largest Mobile data network. He is a big champion of network programmability through disaggregation using open source and has embraced open source in developing several products.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nc9GtJPw0wk


