Title: Keynote: The Power of Open Source in a 5G World - Mazin Gilbert, AT&T Labs
Publication date: 2019-03-13
Playlist: Open Source Leadership Summit 2019
Description: 
	Keynote: The Power of Open Source in a 5G World - Mazin Gilbert, Vice President of Advanced Technology and Systems, AT&T Labs

The advent of 5G promises to transform our lives in a huge way. This revolution will transform cars to be self-driving, communication networks to be software-defined and autonomous, VR and AR to be mobile and completely untethered, and IoT sensors to be intelligent and connected. Behind this 5G revolution, open source is critical in expediting the design, planning, development and delivery of the 5G vision. AI, SDN, Edge Cloud and Disaggregated RAN all play a significant role in the planning, forecasting, building, development and deployment of 5G. This presentation will provide an overview of the power of open source, and specifically ONAP, Acumos, ORAN, and Akraino, in creating a 5G world. Mazin will highlight how developments and interoperability across these projects will help to speed the adoption of 5G-based applications for both consumers and enterprises.

Mazin Gilbert
AT&T
Vice President – Advanced Technology and Systems, AT&T Labs
Dr. Mazin Gilbert is the Vice President of Advanced Technology and Systems at AT&T Labs. He leads AT&T’s Research and Advanced Development of its network and access transformations. In this role, Mazin oversees advancements in artificial intelligence, software-defined networking and access, digital transformation, cloud technologies, open source software platforms and big data.
Mazin holds 176 U.S. patents in communication and multimedia processing and has published over 100 technical papers in human-machine communication. He is the author of the book titled, “Artificial Neural Networks for Speech Analysis/Synthesis,” 1992, and an editor of a recent book on “Artificial Intelligence for Autonomous Networks,” 2018. 
With more than three decades of experience under his belt, Mazin’s previous work includes Bell Labs, BBC and British Telecom. He’s also worked in academia at Rutgers University, Princeton University and Liverpool University. He became an IEEE Fellow in 2012.
Mazin earned a bachelor’s and a doctoral degree, with first-class honors, in electrical engineering from the University of Liverpool. He also earned an MBA for Executives from the Wharton Business School of the University of Pennsylvania.
Outside of his technology career, Mazin is an entrepreneur owning five limited liability companies specializing in commercial and residential real estate and the dental industry. He also serves as a Chair of the Linux Foundation Deep Learning Foundation board, and a board member at the International Computer Science Institute (Berkeley). Mazin loves to spend time with his daughters and is an avid runner.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ijb6MUavxCM


