Title: Keynote: Continuous Delivery
Publication date: 2019-03-13
Playlist: Open Source Leadership Summit 2019
Description: 
	Keynote: Continuous Delivery - Kim Lewandowski, Google; Kohsuke Kawaguchi, CloudBees; Tracy Miranda, CloudBees; R Tyler Croy, Scribd; Christie Wilson, Google; Andrew Glover, Netflix 

R Tyler Croy
Scribd
Jenkins Board Member & Director of Platform Engineering
Tyler is a long-time contributor to the Jenkins project as an infrastructure developer and works professionally as an engineering manager. Since joining the Jenkins project board, he's helped roll out the Code of Conduct, Jenkins Enhancement Proposals, and numerous other advocacy and governance improvements.

Christie Wilson
Google
Software Engineer
Christie Wilson (she/her) is a software engineer at Google, currently leading the Tekton Pipelines project. Over the past ten years, she has worked in the mobile, financial and video game industries. Prior to working at Google she led a team of software developers to build load testing tools for AAA video game titles and founded the Vancouver chapter of PyLadies. In her spare time, she influences company culture through cat pictures.

Andrew Glover
Netflix
Director of Delivery Engineering
Andrew Glover is the Director of Delivery Engineering at Netflix. He and his team are responsible for Spinnaker, the Continuous Delivery platform that is facilitating Netflix's rapid global expansion. Before joining Netflix, he served as the CTO of App47, where he led the development of a SaaS Mobile Application Management platform. He is the founder of the 2009 Jolt award-winning easyb Behavior-Driven Development framework and is the co-author of a number of books including 2008's Jolt award-winning Continuous Integration, Groovy in Action, and Java Testing Patterns.

Tracy Miranda
CloudBees
Director of Open Source Community
Tracy Miranda is director of open source community at CloudBees, where she works closely with the Jenkins & Jenkins X communities. A developer and open source veteran, Tracy is on the board of directors for the Eclipse Foundation. 

Tracy has a background in electronics system design and holds patents for her work on processor architectures. She writes for JAXenter.com and Opensource.com on tech, open source, and diversity.

Tracy is a regular conference speaker, most recently having spoken at VelocityConf London & JAX London. 
https://tracymiranda.com/speaking/

Kohsuke Kawaguchi
CloudBees
Creator of Jenkins and CTO
Kohsuke is the creator of Jenkins. He is a well-respected developer and popular speaker at industry and Jenkins community events. He is often asked to speak about his experience and approach in creating Jenkins; a continuous delivery platform that has become a widely adopted and successful community-driven open source project. The principles behind the Jenkins community - extensibility, inclusiveness, low barriers to participation - have been the keys to its success. Kawaguchi’s sensibilities in creating Jenkins and his deep understanding of how to translate its capabilities into usable software have also had a major impact on CloudBees’ strategy as a company. Before joining CloudBees, Kawaguchi was with Sun Microsystems and Oracle, where he worked on a variety of projects and initiated the open source work that led to Jenkins.

Kim Lewandowski
Google
Product Manager
Kim is a product manager on the Google Cloud DevOps team. In this role, she’s passionate about making developers’ lives easier as their code travels to production. Previously, she worked on the Google Serverless team and launched several Google Cloud Platform products. Prior to joining Google, Kim wrote code for the world’s most powerful laser at a nuclear research lab, and also worked at a number of startups including her own. Kim has a bachelor’s and master’s degree in computer science from Florida State University.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zxgbMxTkaE0


