Title: Keynote: Community Collaboration - Jim Zemlin, The Linux Foundation and Guests
Publication date: 2019-03-13
Playlist: Open Source Leadership Summit 2019
Description: 
	Keynote: Community Collaboration - Jim Zemlin, The Linux Foundation and Guests: Yonas Beshawred, StackShare.io; Remy DeCausemaker, Twitter; Eiso Kant, source{d}; Shuah Khan, The Linux Foundation; Mårten Mickos, HackerOne; and Guy Podjarny, Snyk.io 

Remy DeCausemaker
Open Source Program Manager, Twitter
As a Civic Hacker, Hackademic, and Program Manager of Twitter Open Source, @Remy_D builds communities that use their powers for good. Follow @TwitterOSS or visit https://opensource.twitter.com... 

Jim Zemlin
Executive Director, The Linux Foundation
Jim Zemlin’s career spans three of the largest technology trends to rise over the last decade: mobile computing, cloud computing, and open source software. Today, as executive director of The Linux Foundation, he uses this experience to accelerate innovation in technology through... 

Shuah Khan
Linux Fellow, Linux Foundation
Shuah Khan is a Linux Fellow at The Linux Foundation. She is an experienced Linux Kernel developer, maintainer, and contributor. She maintains Kernel Selftest framework, USB over IP driver, and cpupower. She is an active contributor to Linux media subsystem. She has contributed to... 

Yonas Beshawred
CEO, StackShare.io
Yonas is Founder & CEO at StackShare. StackShare is one of the world’s largest online communities for developers, with over 250K engineers and more than 10K companies that share which OSS & SaaS tools they use and why they chose them. Prior to founding StackShare, Yonas worked for... 

Eiso Kant
CEO & Co-founder, source{d}
Eiso Kant is the CEO & Co-founder of source{d} where he considers himself very privileged to work alongside an incredible team. Together they are focused on bringing Code As Data and Machine Learning on Code to developers and engineering leaders.

Mårten Mickos
CEO, HackerOne
Marten Mickos is the CEO of HackerOne, Inc. the #1 bug bounty and vulnerability coordination platform. Previously, Marten was the CEO of Eucalyptus Systems, acquired by Hewlett-Packard where he served as head of the cloud business. Marten served as CEO of MySQL AB from 2001 to 2008... 

Guy Podjarny
CEO, Snyk.io
Guy Podjarny (@guypod) is the cofounder and CEO at Snyk.io focusing on securing open source code. Guy was previously CTO at Akamai following their acquisition of his startup, Blaze.io. Prior to that, Guy worked on the first web app firewall & security code analyzer, and dealt with...
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=feKDfwqNnCM


