Title: Keynote: Noah Goodman, Uber AI Labs, Pyro, Stanford University in conversation with Jim Zemlin
Publication date: 2019-03-13
Playlist: Open Source Leadership Summit 2019
Description: 
	Keynote: Noah Goodman, Fellow at Uber AI Labs, Co-Creator of Pyro and Associate Professor, Stanford University in conversation with Jim Zemlin, The Linux Foundation 

Jim Zemlin
The Linux Foundation
Executive Director
Jim Zemlin’s career spans three of the largest technology trends to rise over the last decade: mobile computing, cloud computing, and open source software. Today, as executive director of The Linux Foundation, he uses this experience to accelerate innovation in technology through the use of open source and Linux.At The Linux Foundation, Jim works with the world’s largest technology companies, including IBM, Intel, Google, Samsung, Qualcomm, and others to help define the future of computing on the server, in the cloud, and on a variety of mobile computing devices. His work at the vendor-neutral Linux Foundation gives him a unique and aggregate perspective on the global technology industry.Jim has been recognized for his insights on the changing economics of the technology industry, and he is a regular keynote speaker at industry events. He advises a variety of startups, including Splashtop, and sits on the boards of the Global Economic Symposium, Open Source For America, and Chinese Open Source Promotion Union.

Noah Goodman
Uber AI Labs
Fellow
Websitehttps://uber.com/us/en/uberai/
Noah D. Goodman is Associate Professor of Psychology and Computer Science at Stanford University, and Senior Research Fellow at Uber AI Labs. He studies the computational basis of human and machine intelligence, merging behavioral experiments with formal methods from statistics and programming languages. His research topics include language understanding, social reasoning, concept learning, and causality. In addition he explores related technologies such as probabilistic programming languages and deep generative models. He has released open-source software including the probabilistic programming languages Church, WebPPL, and Pyro. Professor Goodman received his Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Texas at Austin in 2003. In 2005 he entered cognitive science, working as Postdoc and Research Scientist at MIT. In 2010 he moved to Stanford where he runs the Computation and Cognition Lab. His work has been recognized by the J. S. McDonnell Foundation Scholar Award, the Roger N. Shepard Distinguished Visiting Scholar Award, the Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship in Neuroscience, and six computational modeling prizes from the Cognitive Science Society, several best paper awards, etc.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eoo5OutzzgI


