Title: Apache Hadoop YARN: Past, Now and Future
Publication date: 2020-10-21
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Big Data (Track 1)
Description: 
	Apache Hadoop YARN: Past, Now and Future
Szilard Nemeth, Sunil Govindan

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Apache Hadoop YARN is an integral part of on-premiss solutions and it will be for the foreseeable future. We also believe, it will have an important role in the Cloud as well allowing users to move their solutions both to private and public cloud as easily as possible. For this reason, the development of YARN took a new momentum in the last year. In this talk, we will talk about the latest updates from the community which will be released in Hadoop 3.3.x/3.4.x releases: For compute acceleration devices (including GPU/FPGA, etc.), we will talk about better GPU support (including GPU hierarchy scheduling support, Nvidia-docker v2 support, etc.); YARN’s device plugin framework to allow developers easier add new compute-acceleration devices; FPGA support, etc. For scheduling related improvements, we will talk about new improvements of global scheduling in CapacityScheduler, new efforts to bring dynamic-queue-creation/absolute-resource into production, and one of the recent work, fs2cs, which allows user migrate from FairScheduler to CapacityScheduler. Apart from these, we will talk about new containerization improvements: runc support, improvements of log aggregation to better support cloud storage, etc. Audiences will get the latest development progress of Apache Hadoop YARN, and help them to make a decision when upgrading to Hadoop 3.x.

Szilard Nemeth:
Szilard Nemeth has many years of development experience mainly in Java. He joined Cloudera’s YARN team late 2017 and has been key to transfer YARN knowledge from Palo Alto to Budapest, Hungary. He has become a Hadoop committer in the Summer of 2019. Through out his career in YARN he mostly focused on Custom Resource Types, GPU support and recently he has been involved in making YARN more flexible and ready to the Cloud. He lives in Budapest but when has the time, he loves traveling.
Sunil Govindan:
Engineer Manager @Cloudera. Contributing to Apache Hadoop project since 2013 in various roles as Hadoop Contributor, Hadoop Committer, and a member Project Management Committee (PMC). Majorly working on YARN Scheduling improvements / Multiple Resource types support in YARN etc. He also served as Apache Submarine PMC member, Apache YuniKorn (incubating) PMC member.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VUXDk68H3Zs


