Title: GDPR’s Right to be Forgotten in Apache Hadoop Ozone
Publication date: 2020-10-21
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Big Data (Track 1)
Description: 
	GDPR’s Right to be Forgotten in Apache Hadoop Ozone
Dinesh Chitlangia

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Apache Hadoop Ozone is a robust, distributed key-value object store for Hadoop with layered architecture and strong consistency. It isolates the namespace management from the block and node management layer, which allows users to independently scale on both axes. Ozone is interoperable with the Hadoop ecosystem as it provides OzoneFS (Hadoop compatible file system API), data locality and plug-n-play deployment with HDFS as it can be installed in an existing Hadoop cluster and can share storage disks with HDFS. Ozone solves the scalability challenges with HDFS by being size agnostic. Consequently, it allows users to store trillions of files in Ozone and access them as if they are on HDFS. Ozone plugs into existing Hadoop deployments seamlessly, and programs like Yarn, MapReduce, Spark, Hive and work without any modifications. In the era of increasing need for data privacy and regulations, Ozone also provides built-in support for GDPR compliance with strong focus on Right to be Forgotten i.e., Data Erasure. At the end of this presentation the audience will be able to understand: 1. HDFS scalability challenges 2. Ozone’s Architecture as a solution 3. Overview of GDPR 4. GDPR implementation in Ozone

Dinesh is a Software Engineer with strong expertise in Java, Distributed Systems for ~10 years. He has been involved with Hadoop ecosystem for the last 4 years and is an Apache Hadoop Committer. Dinesh is currently working at Cloudera, performing the role of a proactive support consultant for Premier customers and enjoys contributing to Open Source community. Outside of technology, Dinesh has a serious hobby in Landscape/Cityscape photography.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mISCTU-cqt8


