Title: HDFS Migration from 2.7 to 3.3 and enabling Router Based Federation (RBF) in production
Publication date: 2020-10-21
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Big Data (Track 1)
Description: 
	HDFS Migration from 2.7 to 3.3 and enabling Router Based Federation (RBF) in production
Akira Ajisaka

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

In a production HDFS cluster in Yahoo! JAPAN, the namespace has become too large and it won't fit in a single NameNode in the near future. Therefore we want to split the big namespace into some small one and use federation. There is an existing ViewFS solution but the clients need to add the mount table in their configs when using the ViewFS. Our clusters have too many clients, so we want to minimize the change of client configs. RBF is a new solution. In contrast to ViewFS, the Router manages the mount table, and clients don't have to set the mount table explicitly. In this talk, I will introduce the internals of RBF and how we configured the mount tables to load-balance among namespaces in production. RBF has some limitations. For example, rename (mv) operation is not allowed between different namespaces. I will talk about how we work around the limitations. In addition, the developers are going to eliminate some of the limitations in the community. I'll introduce the progressions as well. Next, I will introduce the improvements of recent HDFS. For example, multiple standby NameNodes, observer NameNodes, and DataNode maintenance mode are features that will greatly reduce the operation cost. I'm going to introduce them and how to enable those features. Upgrading from 2.7 to 3.3 is a big jump and we hit many incompatible changes. For the administrators who are going to upgrade their HDFS clusters, I would like to introduce the differences as many as possible.

Akira Ajisaka develops and validates some new features of Apache Hadoop such as HDFS Router Based Federation for our use. Also, he troubleshoots and improves management/operations in our Hadoop clusters. He maintenances Apache Hadoop to improve its quality as an Apache Hadoop/Yetus committer and PMC member.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eAiW83I7pS4


