Title: RxJS Advanced Patterns – Operate Heavily Dynamic UI’s | Michael Hladky
Publication date: 2019-05-03
Playlist: ng-conf 2019
Description: 
	Please note that this is NO workshop for a beginner. Everyone is welcome but people with basic skills may get stressed fast.

The web changed a lot in the past years, more and more applications provide UI’s that are heavily interactive and often also include some background tasks.
RxJS serves a very elegant way to compose events and async actions, make your code more robust and extensible.

In this workshop, you will learn some advanced techniques and patterns with RxJS! Expect topics like complex subscription handling, performance optimization, managing background processes, event-sourcing, and QCRS.
More details in the description.

Description

The web changed a lot in the past years, more and more applications provide UI’s that are heavily interactive and often also include some background tasks.

In comparison to the past years, frontend developers have to deal with new architectural problems and challenges.
Not only things like a service layer and MVC found it’s way into the frontend but also database-like structures have to be managed, updated and read from.

Especially managing data structures and side effects are one of the harder problems.

In this workshop, we will start with a pretty tricky problem. We have to create a heavily dynamic component and will not be able to find a clean solution.

By applying some best practices for
– complex subscription handling
– orchestrate rendering and UI interactions – apply a reactive microarchitecture
– performance optimization

We will also find solutions for the state management part of the problem by applying backend architectures and patterns to the front end.

Topics are the theory and praxis of:

– Event-Sourcing – CQRS

Step by step descriptions and source code/slides are provided for everyone that is into further learnings aside the workshop.

Leverage the power of reactive programming and master heavily dynamic UI’s.

Outcome

In several sections we will learn:
• complex subscription handling
• orchestrate rendering and UI interactions
• apply a reactive microarchitecture
• performance optimization
• the theory and practice of CQRS and Event-Sourcing in the frontend • how to separate rendering and UI interaction
• dynamically compose event patterns

ng-conf is a three-day Angular conference focused on delivering the highest quality training in the Angular JavaScript framework. 1500+ developers from across the globe converge on Salt Lake City, UT every year to attend talks and workshops by the Angular team and community experts.

Follow us on twitter https://twitter.com/ngconf
Official Website: https://www.ng-conf.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XKfhGntZROQ


