Title: Lai Yi Ohlsen - Measurement Lab: Open Internet Data
Publication date: 2020-05-28
Playlist: CSVConf 2020
Description: 
	Measurement Lab (M-Lab) is the largest open internet measurement platform in the world, hosting internet-scale measurement experiments and releasing all data into the public domain (CC0). We are an open source project with contributors from civil society organizations, educational institutions, and private sector companies, and are a fiscally sponsored project of Code for Science & Society. Our mission is to Measure the Internet, save the data, and make it universally accessible and useful. M-Lab works to advance network research and empowers the public with useful information about broadband and mobile connections by maintaining a scalable, global platform for conducting internet measurements, and by supporting an ecosystem of external partners and users around the world interested in using the resulting open data. Our users are researchers, activists, analysts, journalists, experiment developers, hosting providers, regulators, municipalities, and every day consumers. M-Lab works to enhance internet transparency, and help to promote and sustain a healthy, innovative internet by supporting our users in their research and data analyses, developing and publicizing new use cases for our datasets, forming collaborative partnerships, and building open source measurement tools. Last year we introduced our platform and data to csvconf; this year we would like to introduce the project to those who are new to the community as well as dive deeper into our open source alternative for on-premise measurement devices that contribute to our public data set. We would also like to share our community engagement methodology, in hopes of starting a discussion around how to best make data open through accessibility and usability. 

--
csv,conf,v5 is a community conference for data makers everywhere, featuring stories about data sharing and data analysis from science, journalism, government, and open source.  Held May 13-14, 2020, Online. https://csvconf.com/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xQkSBWiQtBo


