Title: Sam Ramji tells the story of the Cloud Foundry Phenomenon
Publication date: 2016-03-18
Playlist: Cloud Foundry CEO, Sam Ramji
Description: 
	Sam Ramji is the CEO of the Cloud Foundry Foundation. He says that there's never been a better time in human history to be a developer because there's never been a better time in human history for open source. He says that in the past open source was an outlandish idea advocated only by academics, but they were right and that's why the audience is now attending the Open Tech Summit.

Sam Ramji talks about some of the things the Cloud Foundry Foundation believes and advocates:

We are at the dawn of a new era because we all have supercomputers in our pockets and we're putting "all the things on the internet" This is leading to shifts in human behavior which is leading to shifts in business.

If business aren't able to make the shift, they will die. 52% of the 2000 Fortune 500 list are no longer on the list.

Sam Ramji cites The End Of Competitive Advantage by Rita Gunther McGRath. He says his most important takeaway is that "you must have an innovation proficiency."

Sam Ramji says open source is abut sharing, "Open source is about embracing basic economic principles that says we need to share. When we share non-rival goods like software, it accelerates all of us."

Sam Ramji cites Platform Revolution by Geoffrey G. Parker, Marshall W. Van Allstyne, and Sangeet Paul, Choudary. The looked at a bunch of different business models and observed how radically the competition changes. For example, it's no longer CBS vs. NBC, it's CBS & NBC vs Netflix. He asserts that it's because sharing is now the baseline default.

Sam Ramji says what gets him excited about this and why he's excited to be at the Open Tech Summit, is that instituting sharing by default at a start up is easy, but what about sharing by default at large institutions. He talks about GE's Predix service for managing infrastructure through IoT. He notes that yes, you can manage all that from your phone, but the software has to be written somewhere. He says where are you going to put the code to run your wind turbine? You're going to "cf push" it to cloud foundry.  He says that's the basis for continuous innovation.

Sam Ramji says that most folks talk about "continuous delivery" but they don't actually have it. He says in order to get out of the "waterscrumfall" approach to deployment, we need microservices, containers, and 12-Factor applications. That produces a world that is ephemeral, scalable, and agile.

Sam Ramji presents a quick view of Cloud Foundry:


URL: coming soon
IBM Owner: Calvin Powers
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sii7vs_dGC0


