Title: OW2con 2011 Delivering Next-Generation Business Intelligence PART 2 Tom Cahill
Publication date: 2012-01-09
Playlist: OW2con 2011 Delivering Next-Generation BI, Tom Cahill
Description: 
	Speaker: Tom Cahill, Vice President EMEA, Jaspersoft
Abstract:Substantial consolidation of the largest BI software providers has left an innovation void which could prevent the adoption and use of reporting and analytics more pervasively.  At the same time, new technologies have emerged which provide greater possibility than ever to ensure broad-scale use of data analysis and, therefore, drive fact-based decisions.  And, the CIO and internal development teams are under stronger pressure than ever to deliver results and innovations that can help grow business revenue and create more efficiency and profit.  Further, end-user expectations for business intelligence solutions to be available using consumer-like, web-based point-and-click simplicity, has never been higher.  Adding to that, new data analysis problems need to be solved that include social media, workgroup collaboration, large distributed (even real-time) data sets, and superior integration of reporting and analytics into applications for operational business intelligence.
So, how can these ends possibly be met with BI?  How can a next-generation business intelligence platform, based on open source software and technologies, drive the answer when the largest BI players seem unable to do so?  Affordability, simplicity and modern architecture are the answers.  Jaspersoft joined the OW2 consortium as a corporate member  in 2010 and is today involved in both leading OW2 initiatives: Business Intelligence and Open Source Cloudware. Join Tom Cahill of Jaspersoft for a real-world and practical discussion of these trends and convergences as well as an astute answer about how open source business intelligence provides the best modern alternative to aged, proprietary business intelligence software.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Pb4hxmaTf4


