Title: CppCon 2014: Joel Falcou "Costless Software Abstractions for Parallel Architectures"
Publication date: 2014-10-22
Playlist: CppCon 2014
Description: 
	http://www.cppcon.org
—
Presentation Slides, PDFs, Source Code and other presenter materials are available at: https://github.com/CppCon/CppCon2014
--
Performing large, intensive or non-trivial computing on array like data structures is one of the most common task in scientific computing, video game development and other fields. This matter of fact is backed up by the large number of tools, languages and libraries to perform such tasks. If we restrict ourselves to C++ based solutions, more than a dozen such libraries exists from BLAS/LAPACK C++ binding to template meta-programming based Blitz++ or Eigen. If all of these libraries provide good performance or good abstraction, none of them seems to fit the need of so many different user types.

Moreover, as parallel system complexity grows, the need to maintain all those components quickly become unwieldy. This talk explores various software design techniques - like Generative Programming, MetaProgramming and Generic Programming - and their application to the implementation of a parallel computing librariy in such a way that:

- abstraction and expressiveness are maximized - cost over efficiency is minimized

We'll skim over various applications and see how they can benefit from such tools. We will conclude by discussing what lessons were learnt from this kind of implementation and how those lessons can translate into new directions for the language itself.
--
Joel Falcou is an assistant professor at the University Paris-Sud and researcher at the Laboratoire de Recherche d'Informatique in Orsay, France. His researches focus on studying generative programming idioms and techniques to design tools for parallel software development. The two main parts of those works are : exploration of Embedded Domain Specific Language design for parallel computing on various architectures and the definition of a formal framework for reasoning about meta-programs and prove their compile-time correctness. Applications range from real-time image processing on embedded architectures to High Performance Computing on multi-core clusters. 

He is also NumScale SAS scientific advisor. NumScale mission is to assist businesses in the exploration and subsequently the mastery of high-performance computing systems. 
--
Videos Filmed & Edited by Bash Films: http://www.BashFilms.com
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BApBvh888-U


