Title: It’s Complicated: The Enterprise Open Source Vendor Relationship - Diane Colin Duncan
Publication date: 2019-03-14
Playlist: Open Source Strategy Forum 2018
Description: 
	Speaker: Colin Charles, Diane Mueller, Duncan Lawie
Title: It’s Complicated: The Enterprise Open Source Vendor Relationship

The Buyer (Credit Suisse – Duncan Lawie)
Companies have complex compliance and regulatory processes that have to be observed and many commercial vendors have built their enterprise engagement model around meeting these needs. Today, the cutting edge technologies are almost all being developed as Open Source projects. While you want to take advantage of new technologies, you need to balance your risks, ensure that there’s ongoing support and maintenance delivered – where does that leave agility and Open Source?
 
The Developer (GrokOpen – Colin Charles)
Your popular OSS project gets corporate-backing & widespread community adoption. You create an enterprise supported version as it’s easier to sell an “enterprise spin-off with support” that is better than the currently “stable” community edition. It flourishes as the money starts rolling in. Is one version better than the other? The community gets annoyed but you need resources to keep the releases coming and the code maintained. Just because it’s open source doesn’t mean it’s free. Forking happens. Rewind.
What works? What doesn’t work? How do you manage the split personality nature well to keep management as well as the community happy. Learn from other successful models as well as the many failed experiments.
 
The Vendor (Red Hat – Diane Mueller)
You’ve packaged up an enterprise version of a popular open source project perhaps it’s one that your organization initially created or did major contributions too. You offer support, you continue to sponsor and put resources into the community version. Are you competing against yourself? How do you show the value of your enterprise version to the buyers without disenfranchising the community? How do you learn to work with competitors who are collaborators? How do you create a collaborative communities with developers both upstream and downstream?
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DmPN_49LWvQ


