Title: Rethinking Infrastructure with Open Hardware - Steve Helvie - OSSF 2018
Publication date: 2019-03-14
Playlist: Open Source Strategy Forum 2018
Description: 
	Speaker: Steve Helvie, VP of Channel Development, Open Compute Project
Presentation: Rethinking Infrastructure with Open Hardware

This talk focuses on how Financial Services companies prepare for the next big technology step change while running a heterogeneous infrastructure environment (edge, fog, colo, primary data centre, etc).
 
Financial Services companies are looking for best practices gleamed from hyper-scale companies like Facebook, Microsoft and Google who run highly efficient private and public clouds. The sharing of open hardware and data centre designs is a core strategy for these companies and the basis for the Open Compute Project (OCP).
 
The Open Compute Project (OCP) was started by Facebook in 2011 with the idea of delivering the most efficient designs for scalable computing through an open source hardware community. We believe that openly sharing ideas, specifications, and other intellectual property is the key to maximizing innovation and reducing complexity in technology components. Goldman Sachs (a current board member of OCP) is one example of a company who is leveraging these designs.
 
OCP designs are more efficient at the ingredient level (server, storage, networking) compared to traditional gear yielding energy savings of 15% + and reduced service costs of ≈ 50%. Also, OCP data centres achieve PUE’s better than 1.1 (definition). In fact, IDC forecast that by 2020 OCP Servers are expected to represent 50% of the global market.
 
In this session we would discuss the key strategies Financial Services companies need to consider now to simplify the migration and data centre transformation from conventional gear to OCP and open source. We would provide specific examples of how other Financial Services companies and large enterprises have made this transition. Additional goals would include:
• Research findings – share results comparing OCP with legacy infrastructure from large enterprises who have tested OCP gear in their local facilities.
• Facebook and Microsoft – help the audience understand which OCP designs from hyper-scale companies can be used for each environment (colo, edge, etc.)
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ybv3nIO_UhQ


