Title: OW2con 2011 The OW2 Kalimucho project, PART 1 Marc Dalmau, Philippe Roose
Publication date: 2012-01-09
Playlist: OW2con 2011 The OW2 Kalimucho project
Description: 
	Speakers: Marc Dalmau, Philippe Roose, LIUPPA/UPPA
Abstract: The democratization of wireless networks combined to the miniaturization of communication devices make pervasive applications possible. The integration of sensors enables the connection to hardware and software environments. Nevertheless, such profusion of heterogeneous devices, networks interfaces and user's needs must face the limitations of mobile devices. It requires adapting continuously the structure of deployed applications in order to suit both the users' needs and the execution environment.
To provide self adaptation, we offer a distributed platform called KALIMUCHO able to make hot (re-) deployment of distributed software components. This platform enables the deployment and the modification of the application structure at run time, as well as physical deployment on mobile hosts.
The platform is services oriented while applications are component based. Thanks to Osagaia Component Model (monitorable) and Korrontea Connector containers (also monitorable), states and events are sent from the application to the platform. Supervision and context recovery can be distributed on PC and Android devices.
The platform is made of three kinds of services:
• Services for supervision of the application: they execute the commands for creating/removing/connecting/disconnecting/migrating the components and allows loading dynamically the Java classes for the Business Components (BCs) and for the exchanged objects when needed. So the application part of the code is not resident on the mobile devices: the classes are loaded when creating a component and removed as soon as this component is removed.
• Services for network communication: they allow the platforms to communicate each other and support the middleware for the connectors.
• Services for the application: they provide services for the BCs in order to give then access to the resources managed by the platform. That means classical resources (texts, images, etc.) and specific resources provided by the hardware (GPS, SMS, etc.)
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n5p7CV2lEVI


