Title: FINOS Panel | Building an Effective Open Source Program Office | FINOS OSSF 2019
Publication date: 2021-01-11
Playlist: FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum 2019
Description: 
	Panel | Building an Effective Open Source Program Office | FINOS OSSF 2019

Murali Kaundinya, SVP, Group Systems Architect, Technology Division in Enterprise Architecture, Wells Fargo

Andrew Aitken, General Manager, Open Source Practice Leader, Wipro Ltd.

Karan Marajara, Open Source Process Lead, Fujitsu Network Communications

Aaron Williamson, Lead, Open Source Readiness Project

While every corporate open source program shares the same basic responsibilities, every organization approaches open source transformation differently. This panel brings together leaders from the open source programs of several very different organizations to share their perspectives on running an effective open source program.

Murali Kaundinyay's BIO

Murali Kaundinya is a Group Systems Architect with Wells Fargo’s Technology Division in Enterprise Architecture currently overseeing the architecture for three value streams namely CI/CD, Middleware/Platform/Cloud and Site Reliability Engineering respectively. Murali provides leadership with architecture and design across those three value streams, ensuring alignment to enterprise strategy, technology standards and patterns across the broader technology community.
 
Previously, Murali was a Technology Fellow at Goldman Sachs, and has held senior executive leadership roles at UnitedHealth Group, and Sun Microsystems respectively.

Andrew Aitken's BIO

Andrew and his team are responsible for crafting and executing Wipro’s open source consulting, go-to-market and solutions strategy.

Andrew has served as an open source expert to the White House and California Senate and as a guest lecturer at Stanford’s Entrepreneur program. He is an investor in Mautic and on the Board of Advisors of various open source companies. He is past Board Member of OSEHRA, an initiative spearheaded by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to provide open source-based cost effective healthcare solutions for veterans. He has personally worked with organizations such as Capital One, Fidelity, Microsoft, the U.S. Navy, and many startups, assisting them with developing their open source strategies.

Andrew has been a pioneer in the development of open source adoption, governance and commercialization models and is a frequent international speaker on a variety of open source-related topics.

Karan Marajara's BIO

At Fujitsu Network Communications (FNC), Karan acts as a liaison between Engineering, Legal, Security, and Export teams. He manages the day to day activities of Open Source Governance process, defining/redefining the end-to-end OSS Usage, Awareness and Release Process. He leads a team of Software Auditors and works closely with the engineering team to ensure the OSS Compliance.
 
Karan has prior experience of consulting multiple companies in OSS management and governance best practices and has also performed Software Audits. Karan holds Master’s in Intellectual Property Law from U.N.H. School of Law formerly known as Franklin Pierce Law Center and Bachelors’ of Technology in Information Technology from GJUS&T, India

Aaron Williamson's BIO

Aaron chairs the Foundation’s Open Source Readiness working group, helping members to develop policies that enable productive engagement with open source. Aaron has counseled both commercial software producers and nonprofit foundations on legal issues related to open source software. As counsel for the Software Freedom Law Center, he advised some of the most significant open source software foundations. At IEEE, he advised internal clients on open access and open licensing matters. And as a partner at Tor Ekeland P.C., he advised startups and commercial software companies on establishing open source policies, designing open source business models, and on license compliance.

-=-=-=-=-

This video is from the FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum (OSSF) NYC 2019. 

►►For free access to all 2019 videos from the conference - visit our website here: https://www.finos.org/ossf-2019-recap
 
►► More information HERE: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-strategy-forum/

Learn more about FINOS and how we deliver the power of open source to financial services:
►► FINOS: https://www.finos.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q5cWNDTtPdc


