Title: Ibrahim Haddad | Improving the Impact of your Enterprise Open Source Development | FINOS OSSF 2019
Publication date: 2021-01-11
Playlist: FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum 2019
Description: 
	Ibrahim Haddad | Linux Foundation AI Foundation | Improving the Impact of your Enterprise Open Source Development and Participation | FINOS OSSF 2019

Ibrahim Haddad, Executive Director, Linux Foundation AI Foundation

Enterprise open source development and involvement has its own set of challenges, but it becomes easier if you have a clear plan to follow. If you're one of the growing list of companies that relies on open source software for their products and services, investing time and money into improving your open source practices can pay off immensely in the long run. Fortunately, there are many success stories of companies getting involved and becoming leaders in various open source domains that they charted a path you can follow to improve your own contributions and aim for a leadership role.

This talk offers a practical guide to a number of practices that enterprises can adopt to help them grow their footprint in open source projects. Furthermore, the talk touches on the challenges enterprises face and how to overcome them.

Ibrahim Haddad's BIO

Dr. Ibrahim Haddad is a technologist, strategist and an aspiring writer. His focus is on intersections between emerging technology, open source methodology and innovation. He is Vice President of Strategic Programs at the Linux Foundation and the Executive Director of the LF AI Foundation supporting the development and innovation in open source AI.


Throughout his career, Haddad has held technology and portfolio management roles at Ericsson Research, the Open Source Development Lab, Motorola, Palm, Hewlett-Packard and Samsung Research. He is known for his writing and speaking on topics ranging from legal compliance to using open source as an R&D tool to drive collaboration and innovation.

-=-=-=-=-

This video is from the FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum (OSSF) NYC 2019. 

►►For free access to all 2019 videos from the conference - visit our website here: https://www.finos.org/ossf-2019-recap
 
►► More information HERE: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-strategy-forum/

Learn more about FINOS and how we deliver the power of open source to financial services:
►► FINOS: https://www.finos.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KK4PAOU3c2c


