Title: Jeff Crum | Simplifying the World of Open Source Usage for Financial Institutions | FINOS OSSF 2019
Publication date: 2021-01-11
Playlist: FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum 2019
Description: 
	Jeff Crum | WhiteSource | James McLeod | FINOS | WhiteSource & FINOS: Simplifying the World of Open Source Usage for Financial Institutions | FINOS OSSF 2019

Jeff Crum, Senior Director, Product Marketing , WhiteSource
James McLeod, Director of Community, FINOS

Jeff Crum's BIO

Jeff currently leads product marketing at WhiteSource, the leader in open source security and license compliance management, and has over twenty years of experience driving company growth and building and marketing products & solutions for data protection, security, backup, storage, disaster recovery, and more. His experience includes roles in product marketing, product management, and software development at Veeam Software, EMC, Veritas.

James McLeod's BIO

James is the Director of Community at FINOS and wholeheartedly believes the transformation of Financial Services can only be fulfilled if Open Source is embraced under the three pillars of Contribution, Consumption and Community.

James has a twenty year career in software engineering having worked for telecommunication startups, the gaming industry, digital streaming platforms and financial services. Prior to joining FINOS James worked at Lloyds Banking Group where he focused on building engineering communities for Lloyds Bank, Halifax, Bank of Scotland, Scottish Widows and other LBG banks. While at Lloyds Banking Group, James also drove the adoption of Inner Source and Open Source partly through the creation of engineering guilds providing in-person and remote educational sessions and large hackathon events. James also spent a number of years consulting on software engineering projects for RBS, NatWest and Barclays.

As a member of the FINOS team, James’ ambition is to bring his extensive experience building communities to grow Financial Services into a powerhouse of Open Source. James is a true open source advocate and founded the “React London – Bring Your Own Project” meetup to provide an interactive forum for ReactJS and Javascript developers to come together. In the last two years it has grown to a membership of over 1500 individuals.

You reach James at james@finos.org to find out how you can contribute to the amazing work of the Fintech Open Source Foundation (FINOS).

-=-=-=-=-

This video is from the FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum (OSSF) NYC 2019. 

►►For free access to all 2019 videos from the conference - visit our website here: https://www.finos.org/ossf-2019-recap
 
►► More information HERE: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-strategy-forum/

Learn more about FINOS and how we deliver the power of open source to financial services:
►► FINOS: https://www.finos.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9O-MRjvlL5s


