Title: Mike Stevenson | Adaptive | The Next Frontier an Open Source RegTech Stack | FINOS OSSF
Publication date: 2021-01-07
Playlist: FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum 2019
Description: 
	Mike Stevenson | Adaptive Financial Consulting | The Next Frontier an Open Source RegTech Stack | FINOS OSSF 2019

Mike Stevenson, Principal Engagement Manager, Adaptive Financial Consulting

Both the buy side and sell side make massive investments into regulatory technology (RegTech), and those investments are nearly always divorced from real competitive advantage. This talk makes the argument that RegTech is a strong candidate to become a utility, and to be open sourced. The requirements of the regulators are standardized - so why can’t the solution be? Recent examples of consortia of financial institutions producing technology platforms for MiFID II are a clear step towards an organization like FINOS - in partnership with a select few leaders in the industry - building a full-service, fully open source, RegTech stack. And, through the open core model, that RegTech stack could provide a framework on which proprietary point solutions could be built, with far lower integration risk. This would be transformative in the industry, and would allow financial institutions to focus much more of their tech spend fully onto differentiation.

Mike Stevenson's BIO

As a Principal Engagement Manager with Adaptive, Mike looks after a portfolio of complex projects for some of their largest institutional clients. He has successfully delivered real-time trading systems, firmwide regulatory platforms, and desktop strategy solutions – all while leading cross-functional distributed teams of highly talented professionals covering analysis, UX, development, QA, and support. Prior to joining Adaptive, he had a twenty-year career building complex regulatory technology for tier one and two investment banks - first as a developer, then later as a technical lead / architect.

He holds an MBA, along with undergraduate degrees in computer science and history. In his spare time, he takes a keen personal interest in financial and economic history, and he is currently studying a masters degree in history at the University of Edinburgh.

-=-=-=-=-

This video is from the FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum (OSSF) NYC 2019. 

►►For free access to all 2019 videos from the conference - visit our website here: https://www.finos.org/ossf-2019-recap
 
►► More information HERE: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-strategy-forum/

Learn more about FINOS and how we deliver the power of open source to financial services:
►► FINOS: https://www.finos.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X6lTtcG-gbg


