Title: Santander Team | Digital Trust | FINOS OSSF
Publication date: 2021-01-07
Playlist: FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum 2019
Description: 
	Santander Team | Digital Trust - A Proposal for Banks to use and Open Standards Protocol to Verify Identity, Protect Privacy and Build Trust | FINOS OSSF 2019

Rod Boothby, Global Head of Identity, Santander
Albert Pulido, Technical Expert, Innovation Hub, Santander
Ildefonso Olmedo, Director of Innovation, Santander, UK

Rod Boothby's BIO

At Santander, Rod is the Global Head of Identity. In addition to rolling out new Identity and Access Management systems, Rod is the global lead on the effort to create a broad standard for verifying identity while protecting privacy.

Rod was the co-founder and COO of npm, Inc. It is the package manager for node.js and Javascript. npm is used by over 11 million developers to share and reuse open source code.

Rod started his career as a Fixed Income Derivatives trader and quant at Wells Fargo, worked with the Financial Services Advisory practice at Ernst & Young, and was VP, Corporate Development at IaaS vendor Joyent, where he helped raise over $100M in VC investment for the company. Rod was also Global Head of APIs at AIG.

Albert Pulido's BIO

Alberto has 20 years’ experience in IT and his current role is as Technical Expert in Santander UK. He joined Santander in 2010 and moved to UK 5 years ago. Since then, he has been worked on different projects where new technology stack and breaking some rules were allowed. He led the technical teams for several initiatives been “the first to production”, including company managed internal mobile Apps, partners and public bank APIs, Blockchain PoCs and more recently an innovation sandbox. As a proven technical manager, his previous experience has led to involvement in other sectors such as Telecoms, Pharma, Energy, Insurance, Healthcare and the Public Sector.

Ildefonso Olmedo's BIO

Ildefonso is the Director of Innovation at Santander UK and is responsible for Research & Development and proofs of concepts as well as delivering high profile innovation programmes – Apple Pay, OnePay FX, the blockchain-based international payments service to retail customers, etc. He established the Department following the completion of his MBA at Tongji (Shanghai) and UCI (California) and having worked in Europe, America, Asia.

 He has also been an influential figure in the continued Digital Transformation of Santander Technology advising on Agile best practices (he is a Certified Scrum Master and a Certified Kanban Management Professional), software engineering best practices, cloud computing, SOA (he has a master on network and telecommunications engineering) etc. 

Blockchain been his baby since completing a Master in Blockchain at Stanford 2 years ago.


-=-=-=-=-

This video is from the FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum (OSSF) NYC 2019. 

►►For free access to all 2019 videos from the conference - visit our website here: https://www.finos.org/ossf-2019-recap
 
►► More information HERE: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-strategy-forum/

Learn more about FINOS and how we deliver the power of open source to financial services:
►► FINOS: https://www.finos.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9cok7wjZXis


