Title: Transition to OpenBSD 5.6, part 2 - Peter Hansteen
Publication date: 2019-10-13
Playlist: EuroBSDcon 2014, Bulgaria
Description: 
	Who should take this course:

The intended audience or attendee profile is anybody who is considering making the jump to OpenBSD 5.6. You may be considering moving your systems wholly or partly to the new release from an earlier OpenBSD release or to move specific parts of your operation from a different Unix-like operating system to OpenBSD.To help make the session more targeted to your specific interests and needs, I would appreciate if, when you sign up for the session or soon after, send me an email to transition@bsdly.net with a brief description of what you would like to learn in this session, and to the extent you are allowed and feel it is appropriate, what your near or longer term future OpenBSD project is.

Description:

OpenBSD has been the source of a number of BSD innovations over the years, including but not limited to PF (the OpenBSD packet filter, now including a new traffic shaping engine), significantly improved IPSEC tools, OpenSSH (the free Secure Shell server and client), security enhancements including preemtive exploit mitigation, and various other advances of the art and engineering in various parts of the system.At the time of writing (early May 2014) the big news items for OpenBSD 5.6 seem to be the removal of the legacy ALTQ traffic shaping system after a one release grace period (the new traffic shaping system is now the only option), OpenSMTPD as the default mail transfer agent, the debut of the LibreSSL library as an in-tree developed project, the removal of BIND as the default DNS server in favor of nsd and unbound, plus switching the base httpd to nginx (retiring the forked apache 1.3), but it’s not set in stone yet and every release has enhancements that may not be immediately obvious until you start using the system.This session intends to help you tackle the transition to the newest OpenBSD release, highlighting enhancements in the new release and how to avoid any pitfalls that may turn up during the process.

Speaker biography:

Peter N. M. Hansteen is a consultant, writer and sysadmin based in Bergen, Norway. He has been tinkering with computers since the mid 1980s, mainly while working to document how the systems work and why they don’t, in English as well as his native Norwegian. Peter rediscovered Unixes about the time 386BSD appeared. After a few years on Linux, which included participation in the RFC1149 implementation (2001), he eventually migrated all important systems in his care to FreeBSD and OpenBSD.A long time freenix advocate, he is a member of the BLUG (Bergen (BSD and) Linux User Group) core group and a former vice president of NUUG (the Norwegian Unix User Group). During recent years a frequent lecturer and tutor with emphasis on OpenBSD and FreeBSD topics, author of several articles and The Book of PF (3rd edition No Starch Press 2011) and maintains his blogosphere presence at http://bsdly.blogspot.com.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nxZ7EGT1POI


