Title: Keynote: Change Ignites Innovation - Gebi Liang, Microsoft
Publication date: 2017-06-26
Playlist: LinuxCon Beijing 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: Change Ignites Innovation [C] - Gebi Liang, Partner Director of Cloud and Enterprise Engineering China, Microsoft Asia-Pacific Research and Development Group

As a cloud platform company we aim to help developers achieve more using the platforms and languages they know,” said Scott Guthrie, Executive Vice President, Microsoft Cloud and Enterprise Group. Since Satya Nadella becoming CEO of Microsoft, the Corporation had changed significantly to embrace Open Source and innovate as supporting open source technologies. This speech will review the Microsoft open source history, summarize the Microsoft open source progress, and explain how we partner with Linux community and other open source communities to achieve more. Then we will share  Microsoft's open source strategy. And through a series of real examples, we want the audience to take away that Microsoft is not only embracing the Open Source World but also innovate based on the Open source technologies. Furthermore, we are contributing back these innovations and are working closely with the community to empower our customers with more agility, creativity, platform/product selections, and technological offerings so they can achieve more.

About Gebi Liang
Ms. Gebi Liang is the Partner Director of Cloud and Enterprise Engineering China, Microsoft Asia-Pacific Research and Development Group, and leading the China Cloud Innovation Center (CCIC). CCIC is dedicated to help partners and customers in China to embark on the journey to the Cloud. Her team is committed to developing cloud services to address the unique needs from China local customers and is responsible for the entire lifecycle of these cloud services running on Microsoft Azure platform. Such services include MySQL PaaS, Fusion CDN, etc. At the same time, Ms. Liang has always been an enthusiastic evangelist in promoting various open source technologies and solutions as Microsoft embraces Open source. She has rich experience with and has led team working on Linux and FreeBSD services, Container services, Cloud Foundry, etc. She is certified RedHat Engineer (RHCE) herself. Prior to joining Microsoft, Gebi was a 15-year veteran of Intel and held several key technical and leadership roles in the US & China. Ms. Gebi Liang holds a master's degree in computer science from College of William and Mary.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GevZ5vlYh0w


