Title: Keynote: Red Hat, and the Power of Open Source - Dirk-Peter van Leeuwen, SVP & GM APAC, Red Hat
Publication date: 2017-06-26
Playlist: LinuxCon Beijing 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: Red Hat, and the Power of Open Source [E] - Dirk-Peter van Leeuwen, SVP & GM APAC, Red Hat

Red Hat is the number one provider of commercial IT products and solutions based on open source. How did we get here? It all started with an operating system, a community, and a guy in a red cap.

The operating system was, of course, Linux--the reason that many of you are here. But the real star of the show isn’t the guy or even the red hat, it’s the community that continuously identifies the best new ideas--and then improves on them. Open source communities brought us the technologies that have transformed our world:  the internet, cloud computing, containers, and more.

Hear how Red Hat and its partners, customers, and contributors are helping build and strengthen the source of IT innovation--today, tomorrow, and for the future.

About Dirk-Peter van Leeuwen
Dirk-Peter van Leeuwen is the senior vice president and general manager for Red Hat's Asia Pacific region. In this role he is responsible for expanding Red Hat's presence and oversee all sales, marketing, and services throughout the Asia Pacific region.

Since his move to Singapore in September 2009, as the leader of the Asia Pacific region he has tripled the company’s revenue and today it is recognized as Red Hat's fastest growing region.

Van Leeuwen joined Red Hat in 2004 to establish Red Hat's operations in Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg (Benelux). Soon after that his responsibilities got expanded with Central Europe and later also Eastern Europe. As vice president for Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) he helped to significantly grow the EMEA business until he moved to Singapore in 2009.

Thanks to his Computer Engineering background Van Leeuwen has more than 25 years experience in the IT industry and has a deep understanding of the enterprise software market and the channels in both Asia Pacific and Europe. 

Prior to working for Red Hat, he was a European director for PlanetWeb Inc. and the director of Northern Europe for SCO, where he built its sales operations in Benelux and the Nordic region.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dfNdSkqIepQ


