Title: Keynote: After 25 Years, Where Are We? - Dr. Thomas Di Giacomo, Chief Technology Officer, SUSE
Publication date: 2017-06-26
Playlist: LinuxCon Beijing 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: After 25 Years, Where Are We? [E] - Dr. Thomas Di Giacomo, Chief Technology Officer, SUSE

Last year we celebrated 25 years of Linux (oh, and by the way SUSE is also turning 25 in 2017). The IT and industry landscapes have changed significantly during the last two decades: open source and Linux in particular have been extensively adopted across all industries, which in turn has also inspired many new open source projects to start and develop.

Today, one of the challenges enterprises face to adopt open source technologies, besides test, set-up, security and long term support, is the integration of these different open source projects. Now more than ever, communities and companies have to work together across projects to facilitate this integration.

Another important change compared to 1991 is that infrastructure and development have come a lot closer together. With DevOps principles and technologies like containers, not only do we have infrastructure- and development-related open source projects, but blurring borders and tight coupling between them.

As an example, today SUSE will announce the release of a new product, rooted in communities and in partnerships, at such a cross-roads of open source software-defined infrastructure and cloud native development.

About Thomas Di Giacomo
As Chief Technology Officer, Dr. Thomas Di Giacomo drives the rapid innovation and growth of SUSE’s expanding portfolio from the enterprise Linux operating system to software-defined solutions such as the OpenStack cloud infrastructure, Ceph-based storage, and software-defined networking solutions. He engages customers, partners, and open source communities to share and define SUSE’s technological vision.

Di Giacomo has over 15 years of experience in the IT industry, serving in various global leadership roles in engineering and product innovation, with expertise in open source platforms, development, and support of global information systems and technologies applied to various industries such as telecommunication, hospitality, and healthcare.

Di Giacomo holds a PhD in Computer Science from the University of Geneva where he was a senior software developer & researcher involved in both academic work and joint corporate projects with international leading enterprises.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sZMRR-Ou3VU


