Title: Keynote: Open Source in a Data-Driven World - Xu Chen, Intel Open Source Technology Center
Publication date: 2017-06-26
Playlist: LinuxCon Beijing 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: Open Source in a Data-Driven World [C] - Xu Chen, Director PRC Cloud Strategic Planning, Intel Open Source Technology Center

As we move toward a world where everything is smart and connected, there is a massive flood of data. This considerable growth requires the data center to analyze and transform data at an unprecedented scale. These transformations are powered by an end-to-end infrastructure from the cloud and data center, the network, and the Internet of Things (IoT), and bound together by connectivity. Xu Chen, Director for PRC Cloud Strategic Planning at Intel Open Source Technology Center, will highlight how we can use OpenStack, containers, and other open source software to support our rapidly changing world.

About Xu Chen
Mr. Xu Chen, Ph.D., Cloud Strategic Planning Director of Intel China Ltd, is focusing on the planning of cloud computing and related open source technologies.  He is also a member of China Computer Confederation, member of Pervasive Computing Committee, Standing Deputy Secretary General of China Open Source Software Promotion Union.  Since 1995, he has been playing an active role in Linux technology and China open source communities, thus won Outstanding Achievement Award in China/Japan/Korea Northeast Asia Open Source Forum in 2015.  He has worked as a senior engineer in Sun China Engineering Research Institute, CTO in Beijing Taovo Technologies, Ltd.  He joined Intel in 2007 and then took different leadership roles as Linux and Open Source Strategist,  marketing director before becoming the Cloud Strategic Planning Director.  Xu graduated from the University of Science and Technology Beijing in 2002 and won the Ph.D. on Control Theory and Control Engineering with the guidance of Mr. Qingshi Gao, fellow of Chinese Academy of Science.  Xu was granted EMBA degree by School of Economics and Management of Tsinghua University in 2014.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TLQIh3QviHs


