Title: DrupalCon Seattle 2019: Improved Drupal dev workflow via Log Driven Development + ELK
Publication date: 2019-04-12
Playlist: Drupalcon Seattle 2019
Description: 
	Sooner or later the development or life cycle of every website reaches a state when something has to be debugged. In such cases many people waste precious time in order to get to the source of a problem and eventually resolve it. Very often people also don’t have the information they need in order to solve a complex problem. In such situations websites go down, developers and support teams get angry and something which is far worse -  when this happens enterprises could lose money and possible clients.

That is why Drupal agencies and website/business owners should learn more about LDD - Log Driven Development which provides valuable information when you need it and is also the foundation for good events monitoring.

In this lecture the LDD idea will be presented to the audience and how log driven development helps teams to quickly solve issues, get products to market and close the feedback loop. The target audience of this talk consists of people who want to learn more about LDD but do not have the time to read long tutorials. Previous experience is not a requirement and newbies are most welcome.

Except for the theoretical part during the lecture we will also talk about a very popular LDD setup for Drupal - the ELK stack (ElasticSearch + LogStash + Kibana). The theory together with the practical guide how to setup ELK for Drupal will allow devs, team leads and system administrators to start from scratch with LDD and they will see examples why LDD is a super efficient way to track issues, solve them and focus on the important things in your life :)

We will also share some real life examples from our own experience of problems solved with the help of the Log Driven Development.

At the end of the session attendees will walk away with answers to the following questions:

- What is LDD and how it can help you?
- What do I need to do in order to start with LDD right now?
- What is the ELK stack and how is it related to LDD?
- What does the ELK stack give me and why it is so awesome?
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=39vZvJ366A4


