Title: DrupalCon Seattle 2019: Stop Blaming Your Boss
Publication date: 2019-04-12
Playlist: Drupalcon Seattle 2019
Description: 
	Look, it’s easy to say “my organization doesn’t do X” where X is automated testing, continuous integration, local development, version control, or any other myriad of modern development standards (that you really should be doing). In fact, if your organization isn’t doing some/all of these things, that DOES make it really hard for you to do them. But that doesn’t mean you can’t (or shouldn’t)!

This talk is all about becoming a technical leader in an organization that, perhaps, doesn’t understand why they need technical leadership. Maybe that organization is a government entity or it's a small business. Maybe it's a large corporation that hasn't used Drupal before. Regardless of the situation, if you are using Drupal, you have the opportunity to begin this journey.

Topics covered:

How can you institute change in a goliath that isn’t looking for it? 
How can you turn a single project into a collection of reusable code and technologies? 
How can you make an impact when you don’t control funding or hiring? 
How do you get buy in from key stakeholders?
How do you build influence with people you don’t control?
What sorts of alliances do you need to build within your organization to be successful?
All these topics (and more) will help you go from wanting to implement X to owning X and looking forward to what’s next.

Who should attend?

This talk is primarily about behaviors and not specific technologies (but we will discuss some technology). If you are an individual that is...

looking to broaden their organizations' adoption of Drupal and Drupal related technologies
searching to grow (or create) a new capability within their organization
interested in adopting best practices 
inspired to change the way they operate
feeling trapped by the way their organization operates
...then this talk is for you!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bsyiNoLjy7E


