Title: Tim Messerschmidt - Node JS Authentication and Data Security - JSConf.Asia 2015
Publication date: 2015-12-23
Playlist: JSConf.Asia 2015
Description: 
	The arena of proper authentication and data security standards is often some of the most misunderstood, confusing, and tricky aspects of building any Node site, app, or service, and the fear of data breaches with unencrypted or poorly encrypted data doesn’t make it any better.

We’re going to tackle this field, exploring the proper methodologies for building secure authentication and data security standards. We’ll run through:
- Building on top of OAuth 2 and OpenID Connect
- Node middleware services for authentication
- Working with proper hashing and salting algorithms, and avoiding others, for private user data
- Common auth and security pitfalls and solutions
In the end, we’re going to see that by understanding proper data security and authentication standards, pitfalls, and reasons for choosing one solution over another, we can make intelligent decisions on creating a solid infrastructure to protect our users and data.
As a long time mobile and web developer, Tim channels his knowledge and experience as Braintree's Head of Developer Relations. He is passionate about startups and serves as a mentor at multiple incubators and accelerators.
Prior to joining PayPal, Tim worked with Neofonie Mobile and Samsung focusing on several mobile projects. In his spare time, he leads and creates training classes in all sorts of developer-oriented topics, contributes to Open Source projects and is one of the authors of the Mobile Developer’s Guide to the Galaxy. In addition, he authored numerous articles published in print magazines.


JSConf.Asia - Red Dot Design Museum, Singapore - 20 November 2015.

Source: http://2015.jsconf.asia
Slides: http://www.slideshare.net/TimMesserschmidt/jsconf-asia-nodejs-authentication-and-data-security

License: For reuse of this video under a more permissive license please get in touch with us. The speakers retain the copyright for their performances.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a8zYmRmtss0


