Title: BKK19-201 - Arm-SVE enabled post-K processor
Publication date: 2019-04-03
Playlist: Linaro Connect Bangkok 2019
Description: 
	Abstract
The post-K is the successor of the Japanese flagship supercomputer, K.
RIKEN and Fujitsu have developed a new Arm-SVE enabled processor,
called A64FX, for the Post-K system. The processor is designed for
energy-efficiency and sustained application performance. The system
will be installed in the next year. In this talk, the features and
some preliminary performance of the post-K system will be presented,
as well as the schedule of the project and supported software.

Mitsuhisa Sato / Deputy Director RIKEN CCS
Mitsuhisa Sato received his undergraduate degree in 1982 from the Department of Information Science, School of Science, the University of Tokyo, and continued his study at the Graduate School of Science, the University of Tokyo, after which he joined the GOTO Quantum Magneto Flux Logic Project at the Research Development Corporation of Japan. In 1991 he joined the Electrotechnical Laboratory of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and from 1996 headed the Parallel and Distributed System Performance Laboratory of the Real World Computing Partnership. From 2001 to 2015 he served as Professor in the Graduate School of Systems and Information Engineering, University of Tsukuba, and Director of the Center for Computational Sciences from 2007 to 2012.
At the RIKEN Advanced Institute for Computational Science (AICS) he led the Programming Environment Research Team from 2010, and since 2014 has been appointed to deputy project leader for the Flagship 2020 Project at AICS (now R-CCS). He serves as Deputy Director of R-CCS since fiscal year 2018. He is also Professor (Cooperative Graduate School Program), Tsukuba University; Professor Emeritus, the University of Tsukuba; and Fellow of the Information Processing Society of Japan. His research interests include: parallel processing architecture; programming models, languages, and compilers; computer performance evaluation technology.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mQxGmYbNFGw


