Title: BKK19-314 - Fedora IoT on 96Boards
Publication date: 2019-04-11
Playlist: Linaro Connect Bangkok 2019
Description: 
	Abstract
From hardware to the application layer and everything in between, Fedora IoT on 96Boards will enable a new level of collaboration for a plethora of communities. In this session we will discuss current plans for Fedora enablement across the 96Boards ecosystem and how other can get involved in this initiative.

Robert Wolff / 96Boards Community Manager & Engineer Linaro / 96Boards
Robert Wolff is a technical writer, open source evangelist, community leader and engineer with a history of working in and around esteemed academic institutions and STEAM (science, technology, engineering, art and mathematics) based educational programs. Right now, Robert works as community manager for 96Boards at Linaro. He helps maintain several of 96Boards’ Open Source orgs and repositories, runs a variety of community driven projects/initiatives, and hosts his own live, weekly online video “podcast” dubbed “96Boards OpenHours”.

Robert graduated from University of California, San Diego with a bachelors degree in Electrical Engineering. During his undergrad, he was heavily involved with the Global Teams in Engineering Services (TIES) program. He participated in several humanitarian engineering projects, working in multi-disciplinary teams, to deliver useful prototypes to promote STEM education for underprivileged communities around his hometown of San Diego, California. It was during this time Robert began to develop an interest in open source, embedded systems, and IoT. 

Prior to his work with Linaro/96Boards, he worked for the Qualcomm Institute at UCSD creating an extensive online specialization for the DragonBoard 410c. These six courses are hosted by Coursera.org and contain upward of 500 educational videos.

Sahaj Sarup / Application Engineer Linaro
Open source software and hardware enthusiast. Currently working at 96Boards, Linaro as a full-time Maker.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L8Bzdp9CtK8


