Title: DrupalCon Portland 2013: NEXT STEPS FOR DRUPAL COMMERCE
Publication date: 2013-05-28
Playlist: DrupalCon Portland - May 2013
Description: 
	Drupal Commerce is an open source eCommerce framework developed to help you create unique online shopping experiences. Its core modules provide the basic systems you need to do business online without hard-coding assumptions for any particular business model, allowing you to build sites that meet your business needs instead of getting in your way.

Drupal Commerce was developed from the ground up on Drupal 7, both benefiting from and contributing to the development of the enormously powerful Views and Rules modules. Additionally, many of the project's earliest and longest contributors come from top notch Drupal shops who have all helped to ensure Drupal Commerce is ready for use in markets requiring complex tax, multilingual, and multi-currency configurations.

Having laid such a strong foundation for truly flexible eCommerce, the question we'll answer in this session is... what's next?

COMMERCE KICKSTART 2.0 WALKTHROUGH

Commerce Kickstart is one of the most popular distributions of Drupal that installs and configures Drupal Commerce and its dependencies. We've always described it as the fastest way to get up and running with Drupal Commerce, but it certainly hasn't been the prettiest or most comprehensive.

At DrupalCon Munich, Commerce Guys unveiled the 2.0 version of the distribution to incorporate more essential contributed modules, flesh out the example store content, and ship with an attractive eCommerce theme.

In this session, we'll demonstrate the work that has gone into making this distribution not just a quick way to get up and running but even a complete solution for powering small to medium sized businesses online. Hands-on demonstrations will be running at our booth throughout the conference.

DRUPAL COMMERCE 2.X ROADMAP

Drupal Commerce 1.0 was released at DrupalCon London, but we were in no hurry to open a 2.x branch immediately thereafter. There was plenty of work to do in contributed modules to flesh out the feature set required to do business online, and we were eager to incorporate feedback into the 1.x branch from developers and users of live Drupal Commerce sites.

Now with the feature completion phase of Drupal 8 coming to a close and over 10,000 additional sites reporting usage of Drupal Commerce, we're ready to open the core up to a new round of development. This session will highlight key areas targeted for improvement and modules developed since Drupal Commerce 1.0 that may be considered as new dependencies or rolled into core.

Active development on the 2.x branch will begin soon after the feature completion phase ends.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=27DuiZcpcNQ


