Title: [2014] Memory Externalization With userfaultd by Andrea Arcangeli & Dr. David Alan Gilbert
Publication date: 2014-10-27
Playlist: KVM Forum 2014
Description: 
	Postcopy migration prototypes have been proposed before, but despite showing an excellent runtime, they depended on a special kernel device driver to manage the guest memory. To remove the shortcomings of the special device driver, we designed a core memory magagement feature in the Linux Kernel to provide memory externalization to qemu/KVM (and any other Linux application). The userfaultfd syscall combined with remap_anon_pages allows to efficiently handle page faults in userland, without modifying VMAs and without relaying on signal delivery. After this kernel feature was introduced, not a single line of KVM kernel code had to be modified in order to implement postcopy migration in qemu. This presentation will show the design of this work and statistics about the postcopy live migration runtime using userfaultfd. It will also cover some non-virt potential usage of the feature.

Andrea Arcangeli, Red Hat
Andrea Arcangeli joined Red Hat in 2008 because of his interest in working on the KVM virtualization project, with a special interest in virtual machine memory management. Before Red Hat, he worked for SUSE for 9 years. He worked on many parts of the Linux Kernel, but especially on the virtual memory subsystem. Andrea starting working with Linux in his spare time shortly after first connecting to the internet back in 1996 while studying at Bologna University. He enjoys spending his time solving software problems and promoting the adoption of Linux and Open Source software everywhere.

Dr. David Alan Gilbert, Red Hat
David is a Senior Software Engineer in Red Hat's virtualization team, specialising in QEMU migration.  Previous work has included optimization of ARM code within Linaro, and commercial emulation of many platforms from micros to mainframes.  He is the author of two open source emulators for early UK micros.

Slides: https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BzyAwvVlQckeSzlCSDFmRHVybzQ/view?usp=sharing
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pC8cWWRVSPw


