Title: [2020] Panel Discussion: KVM-based Virtualization Contributor Q&A
Publication date: 2020-12-09
Playlist: KVM Forum 2020
Description: 
	A Q&A panel discussion on a variety of topics (technical and non-technical) related to KVM, QEMU, securing virtual machines, and more. The discussion will be for about an hour. Topics will be chosen based on several sources: prepared list, audience questions on a live Etherpad, or interesting tangents based on live discussion.

Live Etherpad link - https://etherpad.opendev.org/p/KVMForum_2020_Panel

---

Richard W.M. Jones
Red Hat, Senior Principal Software Engineer

Richard Jones works at Red Hat. He works on virtualization, importing VMs from other hypervisors to KVM, RISC-V, Fedora, and Unikernels.

Stefan Hajnoczi
Red Hat, Senior Principal Software Engineer
United Kingdom

Stefan has been active in QEMU since 2010 and is a Senior Principal Software Engineer in Red Hat's virtualization team with a focus on storage. He works on virtio drivers in Linux and helps maintain the block layer and tracing in QEMU. He also organizes and mentors in the Google Summer of Code and Outreachy internship programs for QEMU, and participates in the VIRTIO Technical Committee.

Hubertus Franke
IBM, Distinguished Research Staff Member

Dr. Hubertus Franke is a Distinguished Research Staff Member at the IBM T.J.Watson Research Center since 1993. His area of current work and interests are the area of operating systems, virtualization, processor architectures, cloud runtimes and security. Some time back he has also worked in the area of HPC middleware, compilers and robotics. He was active in the Linux kernel in the first decade of this millennium, working on scalable schedulers, NUMA memory management and introduced futexes and precursors of today's namespaces and cgroups. He graduated with a Diplom Informatik degree (computer science) from the University of Karlsruhe (now KIT), Germany in 1987. He obtained a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Vanderbilt University in 1992. He authored / co-authored over 130 publications and holds over 150 patents. He is a member of the IBM Academy of Technology and an IBM Master Inventor. He is an ACM Distinguished Engineer. Since 2011 he has also been an Adjunct Professor at the New York University, year round teaching graduate operating system classes.

Susie Li
Intel, Software Engineering Director

Susie Li is an Software Engineering Director in Intel. She joined Intel in 1999 and had been involved in leadership role for a variety of software projects, including UEFI/Tiano, virtualization (KVM, Xen, ACRN, HAXM), Yocto Linux, Linux kernel and OpenStack, etc. Susie is a two-time winner of Intel Achievement Award, and holds three US patents. She received her Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in Computer Science from Shanghai Jiao Tong University, China.

David Kaplan
AMD, Fellow

David Kaplan is a Fellow at AMD who focuses on developing new security technologies across the AMD product line as part of the Product Security Organization. He is the lead architect for the AMD encrypted virutalization features and has worked on both CPU and SOC level security features for the last 9 years. David has over 14 years of experience at AMD, has filed over 50 patents in his career so far, and spoken at events including Linux Security Summit, ISCA, USENIX Security, and CCC.

Peter Maydell
Arm, Principal Software Engineer

Peter works for Arm, but has been seconded into Linaro for the last ten years to handle all things Arm in QEMU, including CPU architecture emulation, support for KVM virtualization on Arm servers, and herding an ever-increasing number of board, SoC and device models. He also didn't duck fast enough to avoid being lumbered with "General Project Administration" :-). Before Arm he worked for a small company on an embedded OS and JITting Java virtual machine; watching a decade of work vanish when the company went under was a compelling argument for the merits of working on open source codebases.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ge_H4nf_h6w


