Title: [2020] Look Ma’, No (Real) Interrupt Controller! by Marc Zyngier & Christoffer Dall
Publication date: 2020-12-09
Playlist: KVM Forum 2020
Description: 
	Modern interrupt controllers are very complicated constructs with complex interfaces, only matched by the complexity of the software that emulates them. In a hypervisor, this software often lives at a privileged exception level, exposing an attractive attack surface for malicious actors, and making it difficult to verify the correctness of the hypervisor. This is problematic for many hypervisor deployments, especially when aiming to provide trusted execution environments. To address these concerns, we present a paravirtualized interrupt controller architecture, which is easier to verify, provides the minimum level of service that a VM requires as well as consistent semantics, and which has the potential to be used across CPU architectures. This gives the opportunity to consider trade-offs between performance and complexity, and the applicability to being built or accelerated in hardware.

---

Christoffer Dall
Arm, Principal Engineer

Christoffer Dall wrote the first implementation of KVM for the Arm architecture and co-maintained KVM/Arm in Linux for several years. Christoffer currently works for Arm, doing computer architecture with a focus on security and virtualization technologies. Christoffer Dall has a PhD in computer science from Columbia University, specializing in operating systems and virtualization. Prior to working for Arm, Christoffer worked for VMware and a silicon valley startup.

Marc Zyngier
Google, Software Engineer

Marc has been working on the Linux kernel since an unexpected encounter with 0.99pl13 in 1993. His first contribution was merged in 1996 in the form of the original version of the MD driver. Having played with fault tolerant systems at Bull, worked on exotic (and ultimately doomed) CPU architectures at Texas Instruments, had fun with consumer electronics at TomTom, spent the best part of a decade at ARM where he focused on the Linux kernel, maintaining KVM/arm and some parts of the IRQ subsystem as well as being involved in some aspects of the ARM architecture, Marc is now with Google to help with enabling KVM on Android. He has presented a number of talks at Linux Plumbers, ELC, and KVM Forum over the past years.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gi5Qe7qBo0k


