Title: [2020] KVM Address Space Isolation by Alexandre Chartre & Ofir Weisse
Publication date: 2020-12-09
Playlist: KVM Forum 2020
Description: 
	First investigations about Kernel Address Space Isolation (ASI) were presented at Linux Plumber and KVM Forum last year. Kernel Address Space Isolation aims to mitigate some cpu hyper-threading data leaks possible with speculative execution attacks (like L1 Terminal Fault (L1TF) and Microarchitectural Data Sampling (MDS)). In particular, Kernel Address Space Isolation will provide a separate kernel address space for KVM when running virtual machines, in order to protect against a malicious guest VM attacking the host kernel using speculative execution attacks.

Several RFCs for implementing this solution have been submitted. This presentation will describe the current state of the Kernel Address Space Isolation proposal with focusing on its usage with KVM, in particular the page table mapping requirements and the performance impact.

---

Ofir Weisse
Google, Senior Software Engineer

Ofir is a senior software engineer at the Google Cloud kernel team. His work focuses on providing better security for the cloud without compromising performance. Ofir received his PhD from the University of Michigan, where his research focused on micro-architecture and security. His academic research led to the discovery of the Foreshadow/L1TF speculative execution vulnerability.

Alexandre Chartre
Oracle, Consulting Developer

Alexandre Chartre is a Consulting Developer in the Linux and Virtualization engineering team at Oracle. Lately, he has been focusing on security issues on Linux, in particular on Spectre and Meltdown issues (and all variants and derivatives) and their impact on virtualization and KVM in particular. Alexandre has more than 20 years experience in kernel development and virtualization, more recently with Linux and KVM on x86 systems, and previously with Solaris and Logical Domains (LDoms) on SPARC systems.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ktt1-6zy1yc


