Title: [2020] Virtual Topology for Virtual Machines: Friend or Foe? by Dario Faggioli
Publication date: 2020-12-09
Playlist: KVM Forum 2020
Description: 
	Being able to craft a detailed virtual topology for a VM may be crucial for achieving good performance. But it is also risky, as interfaces become more complex, and an inconsistent configuration may be selected, causing more harm than good.

E.g., it would be good to be able to specify the size of caches, for cases when some software (e.g., glibc) inside the VM checks it and decides whether or not to enable some optimizations depending right on that.

On the other hand, even just defining the vCPUs topology (threads, cores, NUMA nodes, etc) may lead to less stable or outright worse performance, if the vCPUs and the memory of the VM are not properly pinned at the host level.

In this talk, we will show some first-hand examples, we will outline what is currently there in Linux, libvirt and QEMU and we will discuss if it is possible to improve things even further.

---

Dario Faggioli
SUSE, Virtualization Software Engineer
Florence Area, Italy

Dario is a Virtualization Software Engineer at SUSE. He's been active in the Open Source virtualization space for a few years. Initially, he worked only on Xen-Project, and he is still the maintainer of the Xen hypervisor scheduler. Back during his Ph.D., he worked on real-time scheduling on Linux, and he's one of the original authors of what today is the SCHED_DEADLINE scheduling class. These days, he works on Linux kernel, KVM, Libvirt, and QEMU. He mainly focuses on scheduling and on measuring and improving performance. Since 2010, he has spoken at several events and conferences such as Linux Kernel Summit, Linux Plumbers, Xen-Project Developers Summit, FOSDEM, LinuxLab, OSPM and previous editions of Open Source Summit & KVM Forum. He has also given technical seminars about Computer Architecture at the University of Pisa, the University of Modena, and the Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna.
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8yA2SNnx2Ko


