Title: [2020] Virtio-(balloon|pmem|mem): Managing Guest Memory by David Hildenbrand & Michael S. Tsirkin
Publication date: 2020-12-09
Playlist: KVM Forum 2020
Description: 
	How to resize guest memory? Can we reduce host swapping? Can we shrink the guest page cache? Traditional ballooning has been the answer to these questions for more than a decade - with advantages but also well-known issues. There is ongoing work to answer these questions in a better way, slowly but steadily obsoleting the original basis of virtio-balloon: the balloon. In addition to recent virtio-balloon extensions (e.g., free page hinting), new approaches, like virtio-pmem and virtio-mem, can substitute or replace ballooning. However, supporting technologies that mess with guest memory in the hypervisor (e.g., vfio, encrypted VMs), and closed-source guest operating systems become more challenging. In this talk, we give an overview of the current state of virtio-balloon, virtio-pmem and virtio-mem, discussing advantages, issues, and open items of each, and draw a picture of the future.

---

David Hildenbrand
Red Hat, Senior Software Engineer

David has been working on QEMU/KVM for almost 6 years now. His current projects are mostly centered around memory hot(un)plug and memory overcommit in the context of virtual machines. While he's involved with QEMU/KVM on s390x and Linux memory management in general, his main projects include virtio-balloon and virtio-mem. David joined Red Hat in 2016 and already presented at the KVM Forum in Seattle (2015), Toronto (2016), and Edinburgh (2018).

Michael S. Tsirkin
Red Hat Inc, Distinguished Engineer

Michael has been with Red Hat for more than 10 years. In his role as a Distinguished Engineer he acts as a chair of the Virtio Technical Committee, overseeing the development of the virtio specification for virtual devices. He also maintains several subsystems in QEMU and Linux and has over the years made multiple contributions to QEMU, Linux and KVM.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fq47WCCm-HM


