Title: DrupalCon London 2011: DEVELOPING WITH DRUPAL COMMERCE
Publication date: 2013-03-23
Playlist: DrupalCon London - August 2011
Description: 
	Presented by
Ryan Szrama
Peter Philipp
Jamie Wiseman
Jakob Torp
Some of the earliest and most complex deployments of Drupal Commerce have been developed in Europe, including Eurocentres for global language course sales, SubHub for subscription management, and traditional physical product sales at augustes.com. These sites' developers have worked their way through the dark corners of the Commerce APIs and really blazed a trail through Drupal 7 site development in general, contributing patches and knowledge upstream to the project and community.

Join us for a panel discussion moderated by Ryan Szrama that explores the experience of these developers and Commerce Guys' own integration team to find out what it's like to develop with Drupal Commerce in preparation for your next big project. Questions will focus on building sites with complex requirements, integrating with third party services, and using Drupal Commerce in Europe.

Along the way, you can expect topical introductions to specific features of the core and contributed Drupal Commerce modules, such as:

Understanding and interacting with the pricing system
Using the core tax system to properly display and collect VAT
Collecting shipping charges during checkout
Best practices for payment gateway integration and recurring payments
Creating customized Add to Cart and Checkout forms
Working with custom line item types
These topics have been chosen based on real world projects delivered by Commerce Guys and the companies represented by developers on the panel. Introductions and questions will be scripted, but the discussion will be free flowing with opportunities for attendees to ask follow-up questions.

Intended audience
Developers who need to know how to plan and deploy Drupal Commerce sites that integrate with a variety of e-commerce web services and / or require custom solutions based on the core Commerce components and systems.

Questions answered by this session
How does the core product pricing system work?

How can I customize the buying experience for non-physical product sales?

How should I best integrate with the payment and line item systems?

What should I keep in mind when quoting complex Drupal Commerce projects?

Where can I go for development support and how can I give back?

Code & Coders
Intermediate
API
Commerce Guys
Drupal Commerce
E-commerce
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BBaS2xlmGSk


