Title: DrupalCon London 2011: EATING THE ELEPHANT - MANAGING A BIG DRUPAL PROJECT
Publication date: 2013-03-23
Playlist: DrupalCon London - August 2011
Description: 
	Presented by
CS_Axis12
Al Croston
So what's it like to manage a huge Drupal project with over 100 people on the team, a multi million pound project budget, and demanding clients?

Colin Sweetman and Al Croston of Axis12 Limited will talk about the lessons they've learned about building and structuring big Drupal teams, scaling Agile and keeping Stakeholders happy.

This isn't deeply technical, but is aimed at explaining how you can scale a Drupal project, use virtual teams, work with agility and still meet customer expectations when they come from a waterfall world.

Our session is confirmed for 1:30pm on Thursday 25th August. We can talk for days about our experiences in this area, but given the limited time slot we have available for the session, the key areas we plan to cover are:

- How do I scale a Drupal team for an enterprise project?
- How can I keep agility and provide a waterfall wrapper for the client?
- Hiring: how to find the superstars
- Building team cohesion
- Selling Drupal to nervous clients

We'd really like to know what questions you'd like us to answer so we can tailor the session to provide the most benefit to you.

So email us via our contact page at http://www.axistwelve.com/contact with "Drupalcon session" in the subject with your questions. We will do our best to cover everyone's requests within the limited time available to us.

We have to finalise the session by 30th June, so contact us now.

Intended audience
senior developers, project managers, organisations running large Drupal sites, team leaders.

Questions answered by this session
How do I scale a Drupal team for an enterprise project?

How can I keep agility and provide a waterfall wrapper for the customer?

hiring - how to find the superstars

building team cohesion

Selling Drupal to nervous clients
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JSR6r80DkpU


