Title: DrupalCon London 2011: HOW TO THEME LIKE A ROCKSTAR
Publication date: 2013-03-23
Playlist: DrupalCon London - August 2011
Description: 
	Presented by
mortendk
Theming a site is NOT doing a grid, modifying the CSS & changing a bit of HTML - Theming starts when the first field is created!

This is where Design, UX, Drupal stuff, functionality and content (read: user input *argh*) all comes together as a big "happy" family - or rather all wanna have its say, and nobody wanna take the responsibility for all the stuff nobody thought of.
Its a battleground where quick n dirty solutions will hunt you down in about 6 months, decisions that were made in the start process (and all forgot about) now is a problem.
So how do we get around these problems, and create a kick ass theme.
Agenda

Speak up:
18 hours of coding can safe you for 2 hours of planning.
Style Guides:
Set up rules for all of Drupal's basic elements that work so both designers and developers are happy (region based css)

Hot Sexy Drupaliscious markup
Clean out the trash in your theme, spice it up, featuring all youre favorite tools, cck/fields, views, forms ...
Handcrafted themes:
The design is not based on a grid... oooh noes what to do?
Forms ...
How to handle forms and (backend) theme(s).
YOU are the last step before the end user gets the site in you hand.
Its an honor to put the final touches on a drupal site. So Theme hard, without compromise, strike down with furious vengeance on bad code & design - add a good chunk of love.
and there it is: the Drupal Theming Awesomesauce.
... ooh and remember to eat your vegetables
It's expected that the audience have some knowledge of the Drupals' base theme system, HTML, CSS, and a little PHP.

Intended audience
Questions answered by this session
What's a themer's role?

What to do when the design is not a grid

Why you should use a basetheme.

When to code, when to {display:none}.

Why custom markup is so important, to be able to do
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ok97vZDNbgw


