Title: DrupalCon London 2011: CREATING AND MEASURING THE USER EXPERIENCE
Publication date: 2013-03-23
Playlist: DrupalCon London - August 2011
Description: 
	Presented by
Jeff Noyes
This session will cover:

Methods to flush out requirements and uncover both good and bad ideas
Tools and methods to accelerate user interface design
Tools and methods to test designs for accuracy and measure for continued improvement
All of the above will provide you with tools and processies to ensure that you are both building to meet your customers needs by making informed design decisions, and getting better over time.

Flushing out requirements
Well look at several ways to get multiple stakeholders engaged and on the same page. We'll learn to quickly identify both good and bad ideas

Accelerating interface Design
Well look at tools, proceesies, and the roles needed to create both wireframes and visual designs in an expedited way

Testing for accuracy and measuring the user experience 
Well review many tools and processes used to test for effectiveness, and demonstrate methodologies that will ensure that each new feature or enhancement improves the experience.

In conclusion, I'll show some examples of how such tools and processes had a positive impact on business.

This session applies to people working in waterfall or agile methodologies, and applies to both website and web application design. It applies to business or product owners that are looking to increase traffic and adoption.

Last, the session will use Drupal and Drupal Gardens as the basis of this discussion.

Intended audience
Designers looking to learn to accelerate their artform Developers looking to include design, or some of it's user centered practices into their artform Business or product owners looking to build products that map to user needs and improve over time

Questions answered by this session
How can I make sure that my work improves the product I'm working on?

How can I weed out bad ideas and focus on good ones? What processes can I put into place to validate my thinking?

What tools can help me during the lifecycle of concept to creation?

How can I accelerate my design practice while including feedback from my peers and users?

How is Acquia applying this to Drupal. What are we doing to ensure our contributions are good ones?
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1ijPAx6uZfs


