Title: DrupalCon London 2011: THE RULES WAY OF LIFE
Publication date: 2013-03-23
Playlist: DrupalCon London - August 2011
Description: 
	Presented by
Wolfgang Ziegler
Klaus Purer
Rules 2 for Drupal 7 is a powerful module that can ease your life as site builder drastically. This session will show best practices, tips & tricks and present how Rules can work together with other modules to gain even more power!

In particular, we'll show what the holy four -- rules, views, message & flag -- can achieve together!

Have you ever heard the sentence "there is a module for that"? Replace it with "there is a rule for that" ;-) The flexibility of Rules with its intelligent data selector widget enables you to access any entity and property in a very fast way (no more PHP eval() like in Rules 1.x). We will show you all the awesome concepts in Rules:

Direct input including tokens and the Data Selector
Use Rules components and start re-using configurations
Make use of loops & lists
Learn about recent developments (also including the Google Summer of Code project)
Furthermore we show how popular use-cases can be implemented with Rules and build them into regular Drupal modules using Features. Stop coding custom modules, start using the power of Rules & Drupal's ecosystem!

We'll show how one or more of those examples could be built:

Editorial workflows
Scheduled publishing
Notifications
In addition, we'll show how developers can make use of the Rules API and create handy functionality just by writing some basic glue code.

Update:
You'll can find the slides as wells the presented notification feature module here.

Intended audience
Site builders, who are familiar with Drupal tools like Fields & Views

Questions answered by this session
How can I leverage the full power of Rules?

What modules play well with Rules?

How can I replace whole modules with the holy four?

What's going on in the ecosystem around Rules?

I don't want to write code, what can I do with Drupal?
Captions: 
	                              you                               you                               you                               Oh                               you                               you                               you                               you                               you                                you                                you                                you                                you                                you                                you                                you                                you                                you                                you                                you                                don't
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xXcbPi16VAU


