Title: Pair Programming & Test Driven Development done right - JSConf.Asia 2019
Publication date: 2019-07-05
Playlist: JSConf.Asia 2019
Description: 
	Speaker: Palo IT - Kevin Aubry & Lin Oon Kean

So you’ve heard about Pair Programming, but how much do you really know about it? Few are aware of the complexities involved, resulting in a waste of money, siloed knowledge and even internal scuffles!
With PALO IT’s 'Pair Programming Done Right', you will learn how to navigate this potentially chaotic practice. Join Kevin Aubry to discover how you can Pair Program the Agile way. To supplement your learning experience, you’ll also learn how to leverage on Test Driven Development to create even higher quality software in a fraction of time.
In this session, attendees can look forward to:
- A deep understanding of Pair Programming and Test Driven Development
- Better software through faster feedback
- Improved development speeds
- Purpose-driven formulation of solutions
- Higher job satisfaction and team morale
- And more…

Requirements:
Bring a laptop. Have a recent Node.js, code editor and web browser installed. You'll need a Github account.

Having the first-hand experience using various programming languages to design and implement software applications, complemented by his advisory position, Kevin has proven to be a valuable asset to numerous successful projects. Constantly keeping up with innovation and new technologies, he enjoys challenges that take him out of his comfort zone.

Kean is a pragmatic leader principled strongly by Scrum and XP practices to coach and support development team collaboration in software delivery. A firm advocate for Agile software development since 2003, Kean has been on both sides of the equation long enough to know what makes Agile software development successful: Human collaboration and Agile engineering skills.

Event Page: https://2019.jsconf.asia/

Produced by Engineers.SG

Help us caption & translate this video!

https://amara.org/v/pl0z/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CLfT1fH-38A


