Title: Keynote: Harmonizing of Open Source Networking - Madam Yang Zhiqiang, Chris Rice, & Arpit Joshipura
Publication date: 2017-04-10
Playlist: Open Networking Summit 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: Harmonizing of Open Source Networking - Madam Yang Zhiqiang, Deputy General Manager, China Mobile Research Institute; Chris Rice, Senior Vice President AT&T Labs, AT&T; Arpit Joshipura, GM Networking, The Linux Foundation

About Arpit Joshipura
Arpit brings over 25 years of networking expertise and vision to The Linux Foundation with technical depth and business breadth. He has instrumented and led major industry disruptions across Enterprises, Carriers and Cloud architectures including IP, Broadband, Optical, Mobile, Routing, Switching, L4-7, Cloud, Disaggregation, SDN/NFV, Open Networking and has been an early evangelist for open source. Arpit has served as CMO/VP in startups and larger enterprises including Prevoty, Dell/Force10, Ericsson/Redback, ONI/CIENA and BNR/Nortel leading strategy, product management, marketing, engineering and technology standards functions.Arpit has served as CMO/VP in startups and larger enterprises including Prevoty, Dell/Force10, Ericsson/Redback, ONI/CIENA and BNR/Nortel leading strategy, product management, marketing, engineering and technology standards functions.

About Chris Rice
Chris Rice is senior vice president of AT&T Labs. He is responsible for delivering the architecture and design of Domain 2.0, the software-centric AT&T network. This transformation uses software-defined networking and network function virtualization to make AT&T’s network faster, simpler, and more scalable.

Prior to this role, Chris was the vice president of AT&T Labs, leading the research and advanced development for the software-centric network. He and his team made advancements in networking and IP network management, network virtualization, big data, speech and multimedia technologies, information systems and visualization, algorithms and optimization and scalable, reliable software systems.

Chris has been with AT&T for over 20 years. He has contributed expertise and focus on wireless and broadband communication systems. He worked on satellite and broadband data communication systems. He also led development efforts for a digital radio-based, pico-cellular base-station, which provided in-building, mobile voice communication on standard cellular phones.

Chris holds over 70 patents.  In 2005, he received the AT&T Distinguished Scientist Award.

About Madam Yang Zhiqiang
Mrs. Zhiqiang Yang is the Deputy General Manager of China Mobile Research Institute. She is a professor level senior engineer and a China Central Government Special Allowance expert.  Mrs. Yang earned her MBA degree from China-Europe International Business School (CEIBS) in 2003. She has over 30 years of experience on communication network design, development and management. In recent years, she leads fields including Core Network Research and Planning, Big Data and Information Security.  She has led and accomplished key network strategic projects for China Mobile such as China Mobile 4G core network trials, TD-LTE based VOLTE network, and SDN/NFV oriented evolution of core network (Novonet). She and her team have also developed and deployed a series of products on big data and information security.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HULjq3vtEIU


