Title: Keynote Panel: Intersection of Enterprise & Carriers...How will 5G Play Out?
Publication date: 2017-04-10
Playlist: Open Networking Summit 2017
Description: 
	Keynote Panel: Intersection of Enterprise & Carriers...How will 5G Play Out? - Martin Backstrom, Head of Industry, Ericsson; Drew Schulke, VP, Dell; John Healy, VP & GM, Intel; Roz Roseboro, Sr. Analyst, Heavy Reading

About Roz Roseboro
Roz leads Heavy Reading's coverage of the telco data center, and has more than 20 years' experience in market research, marketing and product management. She focuses on how innovation and change are impacting the compute, network and storage infrastructure domains, with particular emphasis on trends such as virtualization, componentization and convergence. In her current role, she has published reports on data center networking, and conducted research on NFV in the data center and telco attitudes on open source.She has spoken at numerous industry conferences in North America, Europe and Africa.

About Martin Bäckström
Martin Bäckström is VP Datacom in the Ericsson CTO office, and has more than 20 years of strong experience in Wireless Data and track record in managing technology, products, and solutions designed to support business requirements. He is responsible for bringing IT technologies into the telecom space and fostering close cooperation between industries in areas such as Cloud, Virtualization, SDN and Analytics.

About John Healy
John Healy is vice president in the Data Center Group and General Manager of the Datacenter Network Solutions Group at Intel Corporation. He is responsible for executing a global Intel strategy to transform all networks through Software Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) within Communication Service Provider, Enterprise and Cloud Service Provider networks.

Healy joined Intel in 2001, and his leadership in the communications industry consists of 26 years of experience in planning, engineering, deploying and maintaining next generation communication networks. Previously, Healy held senior positions in Finance, Information Systems and business and technical consultancy.

Healy is a regular industry speaker analyzing the transformation of all networks in their adoption of SDN and NFV. 

Healy is an electronic engineering graduate from the University of Limerick in Ireland.

About Drew Schulke
Drew Schulke is Vice President at Dell EMC responsible for Converged Networking within the Infrastructure Solutions Group.  This encompasses the definition and development of the networking component of future converged infrastructure solutions for the enterprise data center and high-performance computing environments.  Drew joined Dell in 1999, with previous roles in product operations, enterprise services, and most recently seven years in Dell’s Data Center Solutions group where he was responsible for product management and product marketing.  Prior to joining Dell, Drew was a Senior Consultant in Accenture’s SAP practice focused on customers in the manufacturing segment.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wml2ZVvmClw


