Title: Keynote: Solving Molecular Analysis of Cancer: From DNA to Proteins - Sam Greenblatt
Publication date: 2017-04-10
Playlist: Open Networking Summit 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: Solving Molecular Analysis of Cancer: From DNA to Proteins - Sam Greenblatt, CTO, Nano Global

This session will focus on the networking requirements using open source to treat diseases through cell-based analysis at the molecular level. Transporting this knowledge across devices and centers requires a whole new structure and networking. Terabits per second with high-availability and guaranteed delivery is required to meet the needs. Shared knowledge is the critical  for real-time analysis. This will discuss data flows, open networking, and databases that are all open source and have been optimized for this problem.

About Sam Greenblatt
Sam is authoring a book on Human Assisted Deep Learning. Sam is a consultant to technology companies to define strategies and offers technology services beyond the company's business strategy. He will focus on the strategic requirements of clients' businesses by working with them to determine long-term technology-related decisions and create the appropriate operating model. Mr. Greenblatt is a Technologist in Residence at several technology companies. He uses his background as a technologist and his history of successfully helping companies bring technology to market. Helping the management team of these companies source and evaluate potential technology, particularly in areas where he applies his background.

Sam served as CTO and General Manager of Engineering Solutions at Dell providing solutions, to have strong alliances, develop cross-line of business offerings. He offered a cohesive architecture that made customers’ offerings run better with the workloads that meet these needs. He is a recognized expert in Object Technology, IaaS, PaaS, and HPC (Red Hat OpenStack, Azure, HyperV, VMware). He built solutions based on Cloud, Analytics, Big Data, and Enterprise Applications (SAP and Oracle). He was the chief architect, in and technologist at the Enterprise Solution Group involved in the architecture, communication and technical promotion of Dell's Enterprise family of products. Sam has served on USDL (Linux Foundation) 4 years, Object Management Group (11 years), Eclipse Board (1 Year), and the DMTF Board 2 Years. He is the primary inventor on 4 US Patents in Object Technology. He was a CTO at Hewlett-Packard, Candle Corporation and Chief Innovation Officer at Computer Associates. Sam also was an adjunct professor of Computer Science at both Temple University and LaSalle University.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wx6BZy6E3nI


