Title: Keynote: Five Trends Enabled By 5G That Will Change Networking Forever - Dr. Jan Uddenfeldt
Publication date: 2017-04-10
Playlist: Open Networking Summit 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: Five Trends Enabled By 5G That Will Change Networking Forever - Dr. Jan Uddenfeldt, President & CEO, jUTechnology (Innovator, Entrepreneur, Board Advisor to Startups)

As an innovator wireless technologies Dr Uddenfeldt has pioneered several  disruptions such as GSM and 3G/4G LTE mobile broadband.  As the current disruption with open network, SDN/NFV and cloud technologies moves into mass adoption, we are at the footsteps of the next revolution enabled by key technologies like 5G. Wireless 5G will include Gbps broadband as well as narrowband IoT with a need to accommodate 100 B devices. New applications such as AI and VR will require very low latency in the networks. Those trends will change networking and it is important to have new architectures such as distributed cloud. Connectivity is no longer sufficient. Automation, Life-cycle Management, Granularity coupled with massive scale are inherent ingredients of how Networks of the future will be built. 

About Jan Uddenfeldt
Dr. Jan Uddenfeldt, a principal innovator and creator of the wireless industry including GSM technology and mobile broadband 3G and 4G LTE technology.  He is the former global Chief Technology Officer of Ericsson and Sony Mobile Communications.

He is currently advisor/board director to several start-up companies in Silicon Valley (e.g. Guavus, Glo, Sentons, Agnity, Jolata, Artifical Solutions, Tarana)  as well as to large corporations such as Ericsson and Sony.

He was the global CTO and Senior VP at Sony Mobile Communications (previous Sony Ericsson) from  2010 to 2013 based in Silicon Valley  with major reporting units in Sweden and Tokyo. 

Dr. Uddenfeldt is the former global CTO and Senior VP at Ericsson in Stockholm, Sweden. He worked at Ericsson from 1978 to 2010 of which as Chief Technology Officer and SVP from 1989 to 2010.  

He received his Ph.D. from the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm in 1978 and an honorary Doctor’s degree from the University of Lund in 1996. He has been awarded with many prestigious prizes in Europe, US and Japan and is a member of the Wireless Hall of Fame.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ljQgxQzZPZ0


