Title: Keynote: Disruptive Collaboration – The Next Generation of Network Software - John Donovan
Publication date: 2017-04-09
Playlist: Open Networking Summit 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: Disruptive Collaboration – The Next Generation of Network Software and Hardware - John Donovan, Chief Strategy Officer and Group President - AT&T Technology and Operations (ATO) & Andre Fuetsch, President AT&T Labs and CTO, AT&T Keynote

About John Donovan
John, Chief Strategy Officer and Group President —AT&T Technology and Operations (ATO), is responsible for the corporate strategy function, technology development, network deployment and operations, and AT&T’s transition to a software-defined network.

John is driving AT&T’s global leadership position in the technological transition to separate hardware and software and virtualizing network elements to the cloud. His responsibilities also include oversight of the company’s global information, software development, network technology, and big data strategy; AT&T Intellectual Property, Labs and Foundry innovation; IT and digital planning, engineering, implementation and operations; network planning, construction and operations including security; field operations, installation and maintenance; global supply chain; and corporate fleet operations.

John previously served as Chief Technology Officer for AT&T, overseeing the company's global technology direction and innovation road map, including product development, network and engineering operations, AT&T Labs and the security and intellectual property organizations.

Under John's leadership, AT&T has turbo-charged its innovation programs and now is recognized as an industry leader in working with application developers and others to make AT&T's network open to collaboration and innovation.

John previously was executive vice president of product, sales, marketing and operations at VeriSign Inc., a technology company that provides Internet infrastructure services. At VeriSign, John was responsible for leading its global sales organization, driving the expansion of broad solutions offerings, and integrating a global professional services capability.

Before that, he was chairman and CEO of inCode Telecom Group Inc., where he helped shape strategic direction and positioning for wireless network operators around the globe. Previously, John was a partner with Deloitte Consulting, where he was the Americas Industry Practice director for telecom.

John serves on the Board of Directors for Palo Alto Networks. He has authored two books, The Value Enterprise, published in January 1998, and Value Creating Growth, published in 1999. John received a B.S.E.E. from the University of Notre Dame and earned an M.B.A. in finance from the University of Minnesota.

About Andre Fuetsch
Andre oversees the global technology direction for AT&T. This includes network planning, the company's innovation road map, AT&T Labs, AT&T Foundry, and the intellectual property organization. His responsibilities include spearheading the design of the company's next generation 5G wireless infrastructure and software-defined networking (SDN) initiative. He's also heavily involved in AT&T's push into open source software and other open standards, and engagement and collaboration with the broader developer community. Since joining AT&T in 1995, Andre has supported and led several organizations responsible for software, systems and network architecture, planning and engineering, where he holds six patents in the field of network traffic optimization and database design. He earned his bachelor's degree in Industrial Engineering and Operations Research at U.C. Berkeley and completed his graduate coursework in Computer Science at Stanford University.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l-QjVrVe9Lo


