Title: Keynote: 5G is Now- Sandra Rivera, VP, Data Center Group & GM of the Network Platforms Group, Intel
Publication date: 2017-04-10
Playlist: Open Networking Summit 2017
Description: 
	Keynote: 5G is Now- Sandra Rivera, VP, Data Center Group & General Manager of the Network Platforms Group, Intel

About Sandra Rivera
VP, Data Center Group and GM, Network Platforms Group
Sandra L. Rivera is vice president in the Data Center Group and general manager of the Network Platforms Group at Intel Corporation. She is responsible for the Intel business group charged with providing innovative technology and solutions to the networking industry.

Rivera joined Intel in 2000 as marketing director for the new Intel division that resulted from the company’s acquisition of Dialogic Corporation. During her Intel career, she has held various marketing and business development roles focused on network infrastructure, including product marketing, segment marketing, and channel and ecosystem marketing. Prior to her current position in 2015, Rivera led the global market development team responsible for communications and storage infrastructure segments.

In 2015, Intel recognized Rivera with its highest honor, the Intel Achievement Award, for helping to transform the telecommunications industry with Intel® architecture technologies and network functions virtualization (NFV).

Before joining Intel, Rivera co-founded and served as president of The CTI Authority, a computer telephony distributor; and served as president of the computer telephony division at Catalyst Telecom. She also spent seven years at Dialogic, culminating in her role as director of Dialogic’s sales organization in the eastern United States and Canada. She started her career as an engineer at Westinghouse Electric Corporation.

Rivera holds a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from Pennsylvania State University. She sits on the board of the Open Platform for NFV Project (OPNFV) and serves as OPNFV’s marketing chair, on the board of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA), and the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS). Rivera is also a member of the Intel Hispanic Leadership Council.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1mTYSJGvot0


