Title: Opening Keynote: What a Difference 5 Years Makes - The New Open World - Jim Zemlin
Publication date: 2017-04-09
Playlist: Open Networking Summit 2017
Description: 
	Opening Keynote: What a Difference 5 Years Makes - The New Open World - Jim Zemlin, Executive Director & Arpit Joshipura, General Manager of Networking, The Linux Foundation; Guru Parulkar, Executive Director, ONF/ ON.Lab

About Arpit Joshipura
Arpit brings over 25 years of networking expertise and vision to The Linux Foundation with technical depth and business breadth. He has instrumented and led major industry disruptions across Enterprises, Carriers and Cloud architectures including IP, Broadband, Optical, Mobile, Routing, Switching, L4-7, Cloud, Disaggregation, SDN/NFV, Open Networking and has been an early evangelist for open source. Arpit has served as CMO/VP in startups and larger enterprises including Prevoty, Dell/Force10, Ericsson/Redback, ONI/CIENA and BNR/Nortel leading strategy, product management, marketing, engineering and technology standards functions.Arpit has served as CMO/VP in startups and larger enterprises including Prevoty, Dell/Force10, Ericsson/Redback, ONI/CIENA and BNR/Nortel leading strategy, product management, marketing, engineering and technology standards functions.

About Guru Parulkar
Guru Parulkar is a consulting professor of electrical engineering and the executive director of the Open Network Research Center (ONRC) at Stanford University. He is also the executive director and event chair of the Open Networking Summit. From 2007 to 2012, he was the execuitve director of the Clean Slate Internet Design Program at Stanford, whose mission was “to explore what kind of Internet we would design if we were to start with a clean slate and 20-30 years of hindsight.” Clean Slate led to OpenFlow and SDN among other interesting research results.

Prior to Clean Slate, Guru was program director at the National Science Foundation and led creation of a few exciting programs including GENI (Global Environment for Network Innovation), FIND (Future Internet Design) and Network of Sensor Systems. He received NSF’s Program Management Excellence award.

Guru co-founded and served as CTO and board member of Growth Networks (acquired by Cisco), Tenaya Networks (went out of business), and Sceos (became Ruckus Wireless and IPO’d). Guru worked at Cisco, as senior manager, HFR/CRS business units and new markets and technologies, and NEA as EIR, where he received their entrepreneurship award for Growth Networks. He started his career at Washington University in St. Louis, where he led research and prototyping of high performance networking and multimedia systems.

He served on the board of NetSift (acquired by Cisco), was an early investor in Mocana, Nicira (acquired by VMWare) and Kumu Networks. He got his PhD from University of Delaware and has received their Alumni Outstanding Achievement Award and Frank A. Pehrson Graduate Student Achievement Award. Check out http://parulkar.com for more information.

About Jim Zemlin
Jim's career spans three of the largest technology trends to rise over the last decade: mobile computing, cloud computing and open source software. Today, as executive director of The Linux Foundation, he uses this experience to accelerate innovation in technology through the use of open source and Linux.

At The Linux Foundation, Jim works with the world’s largest technology companies, including IBM, Intel, Google, Samsung, Qualcomm, and others to help define the future of computing on the server, in the cloud, and on a variety of new mobile computing devices. His work at the vendor-neutral Linux Foundation gives him a unique and aggregate perspective on the global technology industry.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FW7Gtq4kG3I


