Title: Tutorial: The Interoperability Challenge in Telecom and NFV Environments
Publication date: 2017-04-10
Playlist: Open Networking Summit 2017
Description: 
	Tutorial: The Interoperability Challenge in Telecom and NFV Environments - Carsten Rossenhövel, EANTC AG; Chris Price, Ericsson; Ildiko Vancsa, OpenStack Foundation

Communications service providers (CSPs) have a wide range of options when building virtualized services from the ground up including multiple choices for each functional block in the ETSI NFV reference architecture.  CSPs prefer heterogeneous systems with building blocks from different vendors including open source software; for such deployments interoperability becomes a crucial requirement.

OpenStack, as the NFVI and VIM, serves as a widely used cloud platform for telecom and NFV use cases. As a common base, OpenStack offers the means for vendors and other open source projects to ease the interoperability challenge by providing a set of open API’s while focusing on upgradeability and backward compatibility.

However, when it comes to productization, interoperability testing often falls short and is sometimes left to the carrier as shown by the testing programs actively run by no fewer than 10 organizations today.

Join Carsten Rossenhövel from the European Advanced Networking Test Center (EANTC) and the rapporteur (editor) of ETSI’s NFV interoperability standards, Ildikó Váncsa from the OpenStack Foundation, and Chris Price, Ericsson and OpenStack board director to learn more about

The ETSI NFV Release 2 interoperability testing activities - standardization and recently completed ETSI PlugTest. Over 40 commercial and open source implementations were tested for interoperability, including 20 virtual network functions, 10 management and orchestration solutions and 10 NFV platforms.

The New IP Agency (NIA) interoperability testing campaigns of commercial NFV implementations executed by EANTC, focusing on results, lessons learned and recommendations.

How vendors and open source projects are stepping up to the challenge, realizing they must work together.

How to stay up-to-date with OpenStack releases and the community.

How to get involved to ensure you are aware of the latest developments and contribute what you need to OpenStack.

About Chris Price
Ericsson & OpenStack Board of Directors
Technologist and Open Source Evangelist
Stockholm, Sweden
Twitter Tweet
Currently working in Ericsson's CTO office, Chris Price is focused on, and passionate about, open source technologies for next generation networks. Primarily a developer, his career has been focused on building and deploying networking technologies for global and carrier networks, more recently his attention has turned to community  development for technology advancement.

A strong believer in collaborative development and open technology ecosystem enablement, Chris is fully invested in exposing technology through open source for global adoption and advancement.  While he has been focused very much on networking communities and technologies for the past 5 years, he intends to invest his time in the development of OpenStack and virtualization moving forward.

About Carsten Rossenhövel
Carsten Rossenhövel is the co-founder and CTO of EANTC AG (European Advanced Networking Test Center). He is rapporteur (Editor) of ETSI NFV TST007 and is active in NFV interoperability testing and performance benchmarking. Based in Berlin, Germany, EANTC is an independent test lab specializing in telecommunication technologies, offering vendor-neutral network testing services for manufacturers, service providers, and enterprise customers.  In this role, Carsten has over 20 years of experience in telecommunication networks testing.

About Ildiko Vancsa
Ildikó Váncsa is the Ecosystem Technical Lead for the OpenStack Foundation. Ildikó started her journey with virtualization during the university years and has been in connection with this technology different ways since then. She started her career at a small research and development company in Budapest, where she was focusing on areas like system management and business process modelling and optimization. Ildikó got in touch with OpenStack when she started to work in the cloud project at Ericsson in 2013. She is a member of the Ceilometer and Aodh core teams and she drives NFV related feature development activities in projects like Nova and Cinder. Beyond code and documentation contributions she is also very passionate about on boarding and training activities, which is one of her focus areas within the OpenStack Foundation.
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mYdJBT-6a40


