Title: All Things Open 2020 Keynote (Speakers Only) Day #2
Publication date: 2020-10-24
Playlist: All Things Open 2020
Description: 
	Day 2 - Tuesday, October 20

Talk #1 - Angie Jones, Applitools

10 Commandments of Navigating Code Reviews
For those who are underrepresented in tech, navigating code reviews can be hard. For example, a study of Github code reviews shows that people are much more critical of code when they know it’s submitted by a woman. Software Architect, Angie Jones, will share the 10 guidelines she follows for navigating code reviews, which have worked for every codebase she has contributed to. These practical tips will help lead to a productive process that will help you get your code accepted faster, and without the drama.
https://2020.allthingsopen.org/sessions/10-commandments-of-navigating-code-reviews/

Talk #2 - Marten Mickos, HackerOne 
Security is Everyone’s Responsibility
The future of work is changing. As the work-from-home model becomes the norm and work becomes more broadly distributed, more applications, systems, and infrastructures are more vulnerable than ever.

At the same time, cybersecurity is a $100 billion market that’s wasting resources and frustrating customers with inadequate protection. We need security designed into products, not applied on top of them. We need ubiquitous security, not just on the perimeter. We need openness and collaboration. And we need to make security the responsibility of everyone, not just the CISO and their team. If we don’t learn from the breaches of the past, they will continue to increase in size and frequency, slowing down society, harming companies, and consumers. In this talk, Marten Mickos presents a vision for a world where everyone is diligent about cybersecurity and thereby the total cost of it goes down, not up.
https://2020.allthingsopen.org/sessions/security-is-everyones-responsibility/

Talk #3 - Sarah Drasner, Netlify
An Animated Guide to Vue 3 Reactivity and Internals
There is a lot of talk about Reactivity in the frontend landscape of late, but what is it? And how does Vue use reactive premises to manage state in an application? In this talk, we’ll go over what reactivity is in general, and how that applies to the upcoming changes in Vue 3. We’ll cover proxies, the virtual DOM, and watchers along the way.
https://2020.allthingsopen.org/sessions/an-animated-guide-to-vue-3-reactivity-and-internals/

Talk #4 - Chris DiBona, Google 
Open Source Licenses at the Center
Open source is now a mainstream component of software development and culture. With this growth and normalization of open source, the license is often taken for granted, and we forget its role in shaping the project and community well beyond just using the code. Chris will talk about these overlooked dynamics, and remind us why it’s important to keep open-source licenses at the center.
https://2020.allthingsopen.org/sessions/open-source-licenses-at-the-center/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=th4i5dQOAnQ


