Title: Contributor Q&A Panel
Publication date: 2018-11-14
Playlist: KVM Forum 2018
Description: 
	A technical Q&A panel discussion ranging on various KVM and QEMU-related topics. The discussion will be for about an hour. Topics will be chosen on the spot from a prepared list. And audience (live or remote) can add questions in the live Etherpad during the discussion.

Discussion of Christian Borntraeger, Peter Feiner, Cornelia Huck, Wanpeng Li and Peter Maydell moderated by Stefan Hajnoczi

---

Christian Borntraeger
KVM maintainer for IBM Z
IBM

Christian Borntraeger is a software engineer at IBM Germany and is the IBM z (s390) maintainer for KVM and QEMU/KVM. He has been active in KVM since 2007.

Peter Feiner
Software Engineer
Google

Peter has worked on virtualization at Google since 2014, focusing on memory management, performance and scaling.

Stefan Hajnoczi
Principle Software Engineer
Red Hat

Stefan has been active in QEMU since 2010 and works in Red Hat's virtualization team with a focus on storage. He helps maintain the block layer and tracing in QEMU. He also organizes and mentors in the Google Summer of Code and Outreachy internship programs, and participates in the VIRTIO Technical Committee.
Current projects include the virtio-vsock communications device, file sharing, and lightweight virtual machines.
Stefan has presented at previous KVM Forums, as well as FOSDEM, LinuxCon, and Linux Plumbers.

Cornelia Huck
Senior Software Engineer
Red Hat

Cornelia is a Senior Software Engineer at Red Hat, working mainly on virtualization and s390x related topics in QEMU and the Linux kernel. She has been acting as a maintainer for s390x virtualization topics in QEMU and the Linux kernel for several years.
Previously, she has given talks about s390x virtualization and its specialities.


Wanpeng Li
Linux Kernel Contributor
Tencent Cloud

Wanpeng Li is a 6 years experienced Linux kernel/virtualization developer who works in Tencent Cloud currently. He mainly focus on KVM, scheduler and memory management. In KVM, he contributes a lot of features to improve performance and stability. He has experience worked in IBM LTC kernel team and INTEL OTC virtualization team before.

Peter Maydell
Emulation Specialist
Linaro

Peter has been handling all things Arm in QEMU since 2010, including CPU architecture emulation, support for KVM virtualization and herding an ever-increasing number of board, SoC and device models
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q22lu6l1Cdk


