Title: Improving KVM x86 Nested-Virtualization by Liran Alon
Publication date: 2018-11-14
Playlist: KVM Forum 2018
Description: 
	In this presentation, we will share our insights on current state and issues of KVM nVMX support in various mechanisms.
We will deep dive into a nVMX mechanism which had many issues: nVMX event-injection. We will cover how it works, examine an interesting issue we have encountered, analyze it's root-cause and explain the fix we have upstream. Then, we will cover recent work done on other nVMX mechanisms in high-level and highlight pending nVMX issues which are still not resolved and suggest possible directions for the future of nVMX.

---

Liran Alon
Virtualization Architect
Oracle

Liran Alon is the Virtualization Architect of OCI Israel (Oracle Cloud Infrastructure).

He is involved and lead projects in multiple areas of the company's public cloud offering such as Compute, Networking and Virtualization.
In addition, Liran is a very active KVM contributor (mostly, but not limited to, nVMX).

He has been involved in the past few years in advancing state-of-the-art of KVM nested-virtualization and the adjustment of QEMU/SeaBIOS/OVMF to support VMs from other hypervisors. In addition he worked on, and lead, the development of Oracle Ravello's propriety binary-translation hypervisor, which is optimized to run as a nested-hypervisor (on top of the public cloud) and able to expose AMD SVM with NPT (on CPU with no HW virt-extensions), and many more virtualization challenges.

Previous to his work at Oracle, Liran has worked for over 6 years as Security Researcher & Developer for Israel PMO & IDF. There he has gained vast experience on OS Internals (Windows & Linux), kernel development, x86 architecture,
reverse-engineering, vulnerabilities, exploits, exploit mitigations and security-products internals.

Liran has a B.Sc. in Computer Science From Tel-Aviv University. In addition, he regularly lectures on various OS Internals courses.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pc7F-n5278w


