Title: Secure Virtual Machines on Power by Ram Pai & Guerney Hunt
Publication date: 2018-11-14
Playlist: KVM Forum 2018
Description: 
	Virtual-machines (VMs) on cloud platform are vulnerable to attacks from sources ranging from other virtual machines, compromised hypervisor to malicious cloud administrator. Securing these VMs requires specialized hardware and software features. Multiple vendors have proposed innovative features to support this need.

Ram and Guerney present the Power9 architectural features that enable a new opensource firmware entity called the Ultravisor. Togather these two components enable the KVM Hypervisor to support a new class of VMs called Secure Virtual Machines (SVMs). This presentation describes the Ultravisor interfaces, the enhancements to KVM and other opensource software entities in the ecosystem.

---

Guerney Hunt
Research Staff Member
IBM Research

Dr. Guerney D. H. Hunt has been a Research Staff Member at IBM’s T. J. Watson Research Center since 1995. He is currently working on transferring security technology into IBM products, and developing additional security technology. He participated in a team funded by the Department of Homeland Security and the Canadian government to develop an end-to-end security architecture. He has been working on developing architectural changes that can be used to increase the security of computer systems since 2008. He joined IBM Research in 1995 in the distributed computing group where he became the co-inventor of layer seven scaling technology. He has worked in the secure intermediary infrastructures, advanced cluster systems, and distributed infrastructure groups before joining the Security Research Department in 2008. He was also the PI of the Next Generation Secure Computer Architecture exploratory research project. He has work on blockchain security. Prior to IBM Research, Dr. Hunt work in IBM development from 1981-1983 and he worked for NCR from 1975-1981. His earlier work was in software and microcode development, IBM product engineering, and OS development for VM/370. Since joining IBM Research he has held management and non management positions. 
His first conference presentation was at WWW7 in Brisbane Australia in 1998. He also did a poster session at SOSP XVII in 1999. Since that time, he has done multiple customer, business and conference presentations.. 
Dr. Hunt holds a BS in mathematics from Michigan Technological University and an MS and Ph.D. in computer science from Cornell University. He is a senior member of the IEEE and a member of the ACM, was a founding member of the editorial board of IEEE Pervasive Computing, he holds more than 21 US and foreign patents, has published papers, and has been an IBM Master Inventor. CV available upon request.

Ram Pai
Software Development Lead
IBM

Ram Pai is a Linux kernel developer since 2001. He works for IBM's Linux Technology Center in Hillboro Oregon. He has enabled the VFS Shared-Subtree and POWER memory-key feature to the Linux Kernel. He has also contributed to enable SRIOV, the page cache readahead algorithm, tools to track exported symbols, and other miscellaneous features to the kernel. Currently he is leading the Secure VM enablement on POWER.
Ram has presented on "Shared subtree" at Ottowa Linux Symposium(OLS) 2006, and "Enhancements to Readahead algorithm" at OLS 2004.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l4jccqc14Vc


