Title: A Small Business that was Able to Leverage the Platform While... - Jared Placek & Brian Seguin
Publication date: 2019-04-11
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2019 - Philadelphia
Description: 
	A Small Business that was Able to Leverage the Platform While Focusing Entirely on our Core Business - Jared Placek, DemandBridge & Brian Seguin, Stark & Wayne

Yes, small companies can benefit and afford running Cloud Foundry in production.

It has been two years since DemandBridge, a small business, decided to make their migration to Cloud Foundry. This talk will be about all of the core benefits DemandBridge’s development and product team has realized with their migration to Cloud Foundry. Why DemandBridge chose Cloud Foundry over other solutions as well as the benefits and challenges they have faced having a third-party manage their owned Cloud Foundry platform. 

Jared Placek and Brian Seguin will share their three years of collaboration and answer the question: Would they do it again and what might they have done differently?

About Jared Placek
Jared is the Chief Engineer at DemandBridge with over 15 years of experience in the technology industry. Jared drives change and technical adoption for his team on a day to day basis. DemandBridge is a less than 50 person company with more than 1.2 million registered users and 200,000 brands across the retail, healthcare, franchising, financial, energy, and non-profit verticals. DemandBridge’s platform allows distributors to service customers on many aspects of their marketing and sales efforts—from hard goods to full digital distribution of their content.

About Brian Seguin
Brian Seguin is the Director of Operations at Stark & Wayne, where he brings success to the company’s day-to-day business operations, contracting, and partnerships. His experience managing controls teams for multi-billion dollar trading desks is where he forged a blend of high-tech and business skills. As an Eagle Scout, Knight of Columbus, and former Volunteer Fire Captain, Brian brings a passion for giving back to the community. That passion extends to the Cloud Foundry Community, which he believes can facilitate very real and very positive changes for the high-tech and business worlds.

When Brian is not laboring at his computer, he can be found working on his farm, experiencing the trials and tribulations of tractor repair, hard soil, and predators.

https://www.cloudfoundry.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HkEzuDK0Be0


