Title: Cloud Foundry and Kubernetes: A Peanut Butter & Jelly Application - Carl Swanson & Christopher Rosen
Publication date: 2019-04-11
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2019 - Philadelphia
Description: 
	Cloud Foundry and Kubernetes: A Peanut Butter and Jelly Application Sandwich - Carl Swanson & Christopher Rosen, IBM

While debates continue about whether to use Cloud Foundry or Kubernetes, the real question is how these two make better apps together. So what does this have to with sandwiches? Cloud Foundry developers can rapidly create and deploy (peanut butter), while Kubernetes gives you flexibility to manage and scale complex micro-services (jelly). In this session, we’ll show workloads with both Cloud Foundry and Kubernetes, ones that simplify security with cross-compute tools and that are portable across multi-clouds. And just like the multi-facet sandwich, these solutions together give a truly exceptional overall cloud-native application workload experience.

NOTICE: Please be advised that presentation doesn’t contain peanuts or fruit-spread, and is gluten-free. But it will make you hungry.

About Christopher Rosen
Chris Rosen is a Program Director, Offering Management, for IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service and IBM Cloud Container Registry. Chris has held a variety of roles in his 18-year career with IBM and is currently responsible for delivering IBM’s container service offering across public and dedicated delivery models by working closely with customers, development, design, and research. He has a BS in Information Technology and an MBA, both from Rochester Institute of Technology. Chris has presented at multiple conferences including Pulse, InterConnect, Think, DockerCon, ContainerWorld, and DevOps Days.

About Carl Swanson
Carl Swanson is an Offering Manager for the IBM Cloud group, and has held many development and leadership roles in his highly technical career. Currently he is the Offering Manager for IBM Cloud Foundry, and responsible for delivering this IBM Cloud open source compute by working closely with customers, development, design, and research. He is a passionate technologist with many years of practical experience in the area of software development, enterprise software delivery, customer success stories, and technology engagement. He advocates, attends, and presents at numerous cloud conferences, including IBM THINK, Cloud Foundry Summits, Cloud Foundry Days, OSCON, CloudExpo, Java One, and Kubecon. He holds several patents and remains an active developer in cloud technologies and IoT.

https://www.cloudfoundry.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jqOCnjKe2PM


