Title: Deep Dive: Cracks in the Foundation: Operating Cloud Foundry... - Stephanie Mathis & Josh Ghiloni
Publication date: 2019-04-11
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2019 - Philadelphia
Description: 
	Deep Dive: Cracks in the Foundation: Operating Cloud Foundry in the Real World - Stephanie Mathis, Technology Manager & Josh Ghiloni, Pivotal

There are dozens of talks from various conferences over the years that talk about how successful Cloud Foundry has made their business. Nobody seems to talk, however, about all the bumps in the road they hit on the way to that success. Stephanie has seen her fair share of bumps as a Technology Manager at a major insurance company as they deploy massive foundations, and in his role as a Solutions Architect with Pivotal, Josh has seen common and uncommon problems that plague customers from all industry verticals. In this talk, they will present their top 10 biggest problems they (and maybe you too!) have encountered, and how they can be avoided, mitigated, or solved altogether.

About Stephanie Mathis
Stephanie is a Technology Manager. She started out as a software developer and most recently took on the role of Product Manager for the Cloud Foundry Platform team. She’s seen many sides of the development world, being a developer herself, helping teams adopt continuous delivery and agile methodologies and now leading the team that’s standing up one of the insurance industry's largest cloud platforms. Stephanie has spoken at various industry meetups and presented at local universities.

About Josh Ghiloni
Josh has been with Pivotal as an Advisory Solutions Architect since 2017 but has been using Cloud Foundry since 2014. He is a member of the Pivotal Cloud Foundry Solutions team, where he has helped customers over every industry vertical be successful running Cloud Foundry in production at scale. He spoke at the 2017 CF Summit North America, and has presented at numerous local Cloud Foundry meetup events.

https://www.cloudfoundry.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ydswsuidHn4


