Title: Deep Dive: Cloud Foundry Stream Processing - Monitoring Comcast’s... - Mike Graham & Dan Carroll
Publication date: 2019-04-11
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2019 - Philadelphia
Description: 
	Deep Dive: Cloud Foundry Stream Processing - Monitoring Comcast’s Outside Plant - Charles (Mike) Graham & Dan Carroll, Comcast Cable Communications

Comcast manages over 2 million miles of fiber and coax, and over 40 million in home devices. This “outside plant” is subject to adverse conditions from severe weather to power grid outages to construction-related disruptions. Maintaining the health of this large and important infrastructure requires a distributed, scalable, reliable and fast information system capable of real-time processing and rapid analysis and response. Using Cloud Foundry, Comcast is able to deploy a Java Spring Kafka Streams application for monitoring, problem analysis, metrics reporting and action response for the outside plant.

In this talk, you’ll learn how to create and deploy a Cloud Foundry Kafka Streams application. You will see how to scale the application using partitioning and how to maintain high speed, durable instance-based state. You'll see how easy it is to connect several of these applications (or micro services) together using asynchronous messaging. You will see how to build a REST API using Kafka Streams “interactive queries” that can be used to retrieve the data in the state stores. We will explore the deployment and monitoring mechanisms used to deliver this system as a set of independently deployed components.

About Dan Carroll
Dan Carroll is a senior software engineer at Comcast. Dan is currently developing a Cloud Foundry Java Spring streaming-based application to monitor and analyze Comcast’s outside plant. He has many years of experience in the telecommunications field with different technologies and stacks. Kafka and stream processing have proved to be a very powerful tool for Comcast and Dan is looking forward to delivering more applications using the platform.

About Charles (Mike) Graham
Mike Graham has been building spatial information systems since 1987 on a variety of technology stacks.

He has architected dynamic, extensible platforms for ExxonMobil, Chevron, IHS Markit, and other large enterprises.

Recently, in work for Comcast, Mike has been architecting a Cloud Foundry deployed Java Spring streaming platform based on Kafka and Kafka Streams for monitoring and analyzing Comcast's entire outside plant including over 40 million in home devices and 2 million miles of coax and fiber.

Mike has seen the introduction of significant technologies in his career and believes that container-deployed streaming apps are a game changer.

https://www.cloudfoundry.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oVvoqg-NiKU


