Title: Double, Double Toil and Trouble; SRE Transform... - Bozhidar Lenchov, Corey Innis & Ryan Collins
Publication date: 2019-04-11
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2019 - Philadelphia
Description: 
	Double, Double Toil and Trouble; SRE Transformation through Automation and Collaboration - Bozhidar Lenchov, Corey Innis & Ryan Collins, Pivotal

As security, reliability and continuous integration become more of a concern for organizations of all sizes, DevOps teams have to come up with ways to support these increasing workload demands. Operating a Platform as a Service, managed by a team over multiple timezones, presents additional technical and communicational challenges which we've tried to identify and address.

We all have many tedious chores related to maintaining on our production environment(s). So, we automate the toil; now what do we do? Oh, we can start collaborating with other teams to help reduce their toil! Now, we've enabled self-service, so now what's next? Oh, we can share these learnings via workshops because it turns out that dev teams also benefit from this knowledge base and set of practices. That is, we scale!

In this presentation Bozhidar, Corey and Ryan from the Pivotal CloudOps teams in Toronto and San Francisco will outline some of the automation and practices used in their day-to-day operations. Those include detection of abusive workloads, automating platform updates and backups and auditing expiring credentials and potentially-malicious clients to prevent downtime and remain within SLI/SLOs. We'll also discuss practices around handling interrupts and incidents, working remotely, enabling teams to self-service requests and sharing context within the team and to the broader organization.

About Ryan Collins
Manager, Software Engineering, Pivotal

About Bozhidar Lenchov
Bozhidar is a Senior Software Engineer at Pivotal, working in the Toronto, Canada office. They are currently part of the team managing Pivotal Web Services, but have previously spent time contributing on the BOSH Core team. Prior to Cloud Foundry, they spent 4 years working on and anchoring Android client engagements at Pivotal Labs in Toronto, driving agile transformation and engineering reliable solutions. Bozhidar has spoken most recently at Cloud Foundry Summit Europe 2018 about BOSH Links API development.

About Corey Innis
Corey is a Staff Software Engineer at Pivotal in San Francisco. They first joined Pivotal in 2007, and have found a passion for helping transform teams and organizations through Agile, Lean, Balanced Team and DevOps/SRE practices (and more).

https://www.cloudfoundry.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=60QjgjTJ8g0


