Title: How the CF Service Mesh Could Solve Identity and Access... - Tian Wang & Anubha Dubey, Pivotal
Publication date: 2019-04-11
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2019 - Philadelphia
Description: 
	How the CF Service Mesh Could Solve Identity and Access Management for your Workloads - Tian Wang & Anubha Dubey, Pivotal

As CF integrates the Envoy proxy and the Istio control plane, one of the core areas of interest has been providing security policies for workloads across CFAR and CFCR. Identity and Access Management (IAM) is a key area, mixing end user single sign-on, service-to-service authentication/authorization, and control plane identity concerns. These policies cut across many layers, with much previously implemented as generic boilerplate code from language-specific libraries.

Learn how we plan to change this paradigm and allow you to declare codeless language-agnostic policies the platform will use to provide IAM as a service so you can focus on writing features, not infrastructure.

About Anubha Dubey
Anubha is a Sr. Product Designer at Pivotal working on security and identity design with the User Account and Authentication (UAA) team for open source Cloud Foundry and the Pivotal Single Sign-on service. Before Pivotal, she held the position of UX Designer at Cisco on both cloud and on-premise security and networking products. She has been creating solutions for the enterprise and advertising industries for over five years translating user behaviors into products by structuring the design process to the culture of each companies.

About Tian Wang
Tian Wang is the Senior Product Manager for App and Workload Identity at Pivotal. He works closely with the identity team for UAA (User Account and Authentication Service) on Open Source Cloud Foundry, with the CF Routing and Networking teams on Istio and Envoy, and leads the Pivotal SSO (Single Sign-On) Service. Prior to joining Pivotal, he worked as a security consultant for identity and access management, assisting Global and Fortune 500 companies with their identity strategies, roadmaps, and implementations. He holds a Bachelors of Business Administration and Bachelors of Computer Science from the University of California, Berkeley. Most recently he spoke at Cloud Foundry Summit Europe 2017 about identity and access management use cases.

https://www.cloudfoundry.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lOUV_YeBrZk


