Title: Introduction to the Cloud Foundry 101: Getting Started Track - Xiujiao Gao & Jared Ruckle
Publication date: 2019-04-11
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2019 - Philadelphia
Description: 
	Introduction to the Cloud Foundry 101: Getting Started Track - Xiujiao Gao, Stark & Wayne & Jared Ruckle, Pivotal

This track covers the most important topics to help you get started with Cloud Foundry (CF). Regardless of your role, you’ll learn how to get up and running with CF. You will learn that CF supports a wide range of application architectures, so you know what workloads are a good fit for the platform.

You’ll learn from veteran CF operators. These folks have deployed and run the platform at scale and will share what they have learned.

What about the developer experience? We will take a deep look at examining how to use CF to manage applications and backing services. We will learn about building pipelines, and how CI/CD can plug into CF.

This track has something for everyone because all the technologies that touch CF are so diverse. We will learn about .NET with CF. If you’re more familiar with Kubernetes, you can learn how CF compares with this orchestrator.

Services are extremely important for apps. So we focus on how the open service broker framework works, and how it helps you run services across CF and Kubernetes.

We also know that security is important, authentication and authorization are always hot topics. You will learn how to deploy and use UAA both inside and outside of CF.

And finally, every vibrant open-source community needs as a growing pool of thoughtful, responsible contributors. How can you take part? We’ll discuss that too.

About Xiujiao Gao
Xiujiao Gao currently works as a Client Lead & Cloud Engineer at Stark & Wayne. She earned her Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering at the State University of New York at Buffalo (UB). 

At Stark & Wayne, she has been helping numerous clients with their Platform ("PaaS") Operations, CF and Related BOSH Deployments, CFCR, Automation using Concourse, Monitoring, Backup/Restore, and Application Migrations. She makes sure that the projects and processes stay on track and delivers valuable outcomes to clients. 

She writes blogs/articles and speaks at conferences and, as an ambassador for CF community, she helps people in various ways, especially during conferences and meetups.

She has presented at CF Summits in the USA, EU, and China along with the OpenStack Summit and other tech conferences.

About Jared Ruckle
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7W5OBCaQLko


