Title: Keynote: Why Empathy Matters in Open Source Software Development - Denise Yu
Publication date: 2019-04-11
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2019 - Philadelphia
Description: 
	Keynote: Why Empathy Matters in Open Source Software Development - Denise Yu, Software Engineer, Pivotal

A chat between Abby Kearns and Denise Yu about the importance of thinking about empathy early in the software development lifecycle by centering the end users of open source products.

About Abby Kearns
With nearly twenty years in the tech world, Abby Kearns is a true veteran of the industry. Her lengthy career has spanned product marketing, product management and consulting across Fortune 500 companies and startups alike. As Executive Director of Cloud Foundry Foundation, Abby helms the ecosystem of developers, users and applications running on Cloud Foundry, and works closely with the Board to drive the Foundation’s vision and grow the open source project. Prior to Cloud Foundry Foundation, Abby focused on Pivotal Cloud Foundry as part of the Product Management team at Pivotal. She spent eight years at Verizon where she led Product Management and Product Marketing teams dedicated to the early days of cloud services. In her free time, Abby enjoys indulging in food and wine, and spending time with her husband and son.

About Denise Yu
Denise is a Senior Software Engineer at Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) in Toronto. In her time at Pivotal she has worked on a variety of open source and enterprise products, served briefly as the Product Manager of Pivotal's On-Demand Service Broker SDK, then moved across an ocean to the Toronto office where she now works on enabling high-confidence release engineering for the PCF program, as part of the Master Pipeline team. Denise has previously delivered talks at conferences and meetups throughout Europe, North America and Asia on topics ranging from continuous delivery to functional programming to cultural linguistics. She enjoys learning about distributed systems, release engineering, and low-level Linux kernel programming. In her spare time she creates illustrations that break down complex technical topics at deniseyu.io/art, and yes you may use these images with attribution in your decks!

https://www.cloudfoundry.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s9c3lgqbip8


