Title: Practical Guide to Frictionless Cloud Native Security for DevOps - Sergey Matochkin, Comcast
Publication date: 2019-04-11
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit NA 2019 - Philadelphia
Description: 
	Practical Guide to Frictionless Cloud Native Security for DevOps - Sergey Matochkin, Comcast

"Great job on getting all patches applied!" – said no CIO ever...

As the transition to micro-service architecture has accelerated service delivery at Comcast - security, audit, and compliance added friction and hasn't felt the same love. This inspired us to think about how we can change the approach to security, versus just doing the same things only harder.

When at Comcast we hosted a live demo session showing the possibility of transforming security to raise safety to a new level by going faster with significantly less effort, we had a lot of interested developers registered to attend. What if we could use many of the current methodologies and practices just in a slightly different way to make our products secure by default while removing undifferentiated heavy lifting? What if we could implement the Cloud Native Security principals across the entire SDLC?

In this session, you’ll learn about practical steps and implementations that help to accelerate application development lifecycle while, at the same time, strengthen security of the applications. Some of the steps include integration of Cloud Native platforms like Cloud Foundry and Kubernetes with secret management systems to offload DevOps teams from handling passwords and to enable password-free service delivery.

About Sergey Matochkin
Sergey Matochkin is a Distinguished Engineer at Comcast. Sergey has been promoting Cloud Native application design and Cloud Native platforms in Comcast for the past five years. He is actively engaged with community of developers to identify opportunities for increasing DevOps productivity and velocity in delivering new services to Comcast customers. At the same time Sergey is leading continuous improvement of Cloud Native platforms adopted in the organization, including Cloud Foundry Application and Container Runtimes, and helps to operate the platforms at scale.

Sergey has previously spoke at Cloud Foundry Summit and SpringOne Platform.

https://www.cloudfoundry.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLagIq3Bxi0


