Title: [2019] Virtualization Based Hardening: Securing Container Workloads and Beyond
Publication date: 2019-11-09
Playlist: KVM Forum 2019
Description: 
	One concern of container workloads has always been the limited process isolation provided by the hosting OS. With Virtualization Based Hardening (VBH), a new set of security policies can be enforced by an open source thin-layer hypervisor, which can prevent compromised containers from tampering the OS kernel or other containers, through a set of memory exploit and attack techniques. Intel, together with Bitdefender, worked on several memory introspection use-cases designed to defend container workloads against zero day binary exploits. We will review a few CVEs as examples.

In addition, the set of APIs exposed by the HV is intended to assist anyone in implementing hardening modules for containers. The solution can be used for other scenarios, such as debugging. We also present a tool for kernel developers which can help in some uncommon tasks such as finding self-modified kernel code.

---

Jun Nakajima
Intel Corp.
Sr. Principal Engineer

Jun Nakajima is a Senior Principal Engineer at the Intel Open Source Technology Center, leading open source virtualization, such as KVM and Xen. Recently Jun worked on various security issues, implementing migitations for KVM. Jun presented a number of times at technical conferences, including KVM Forum, Xen Summit, LinuxCon, OpenStack Summit, and USENIX. He has over 20 years of experience with AI, operating system internals, virtualization, distributed systems, and clouds.

Andrei Lutas
Bitdefender
Senior Team Lead

Andrei joined Bitdefender in October 2008, as a junior virus researcher; Initial responsibilities included reverse engineering of malicious samples, adding signatures for malicious files, developing disinfection routines and developing code-similarity methods and systems. He joined the R&D team in November 2011, as an Introspection Research Lead, and started developing today's cutting edge Hypervisor Memory Introspection engine. During his work on this project, he was involved in the writing of several academic papers, he spoke at several industry-leading conferences such as CERT-RO, USENIX, IDF or ISecCon, he demoed the HVMI solution at events such as Citrix Synergy or VMworld, and he worked at more than 10 patent applications. Currently, Andrei is a PhD student at the Technical University of Cluj-Napoca, and he leads the team responsible for the developing of the HVI solution, which grew from 3 people 5 years to ago to almost 20 today. His main interests are everything low-level related, such as reverse-engineering, hypervisor and hardware based security, side-channels, and security-oriented ISA extensions.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xPa8C6k0XxU


