Title: [2019] Bring QEMU to Micro Service World by Xiao Guangrong & Zhang Yulei
Publication date: 2019-11-12
Playlist: KVM Forum 2019
Description: 
	Recently more and more services, particularly micro services, have been moved from VMs to containers. Due to container's native infrastructure, cloud providers are seeking tech to create a more secured multi-tenant environment such as firecrack from AWS.
But using a dedicated hypervisor for micro service would bring extra burden to develop and maintain respectively. Furthermore, the improvement we add for one could benifit another. How about leveraging QEMU to fulfill the requirements of micro services? That is exactly what we did at Tencent Cloud.
We will share our works to adapt QEMU to fast deploy intensive micro services in a extremely short period ( less than 35 ms) with less resource utilization which is comparable to containers that includes directly starting a VM from the parent, C/R QEMU to start a new VM, modularizing QEMU, reducing resource usage for both QEMU & Linux VMs etc.

---

Xiao Guangrong
Tencent Cloud
Senior Software Engineer

Xiao Guangrong is a Linux Kernel developer working on Ftrace, MM, Btrfs but his main interest is KVM. As a active contributor, he was invited to give some presentations at some conferences: Japan LinuxCon 2011, Japan LinuxCon 2012 China CLK 2012, KVM Forum 2016, 2017, 2018. He is the maintainer of NVDIMM in Qemu’s community who designed and implemented NVDIMM in KVM

Zhang Yulei
Tencent Cloud
Senior Software Engineer

More than 10 years experienced software developer working in Virtualization area. Used to design and implement Intel GPU virtualization technology(a.k.a Intel GVT-g). Recent presentation was: as technique speaker presented "Enable media cloud with intel Graphics virtualization technology" at Alibaba computer conference in 2015 and "Adaptive Live Migration" at KVM Forum 2018.

Note: We apologize for lower video quality due to technical problems.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5hIDwkpXUiw


