Title: [2019] Bring a Scalable IOV Capable Device into Linux World by Xin Zeng & Yi Liu
Publication date: 2019-11-12
Playlist: KVM Forum 2019
Description: 
	Intel has introduced a new hardware-assisted IO virtualization technology, i.e. scalable IOV which provides much better flexibility and scalability in sharing of I/O devices like network interface cards, GPUs, and hardware accelerators across containers and VMs compared to the existing one - SR-IOV. In this presentation, the authors will take an overview of the scalable IOV technology from platform and device's perspective, introduce how to enable a typical scalable IOV device driver through vfio-mdev framework, how to compose the virtual device from scalable IOV capable device and bring up this virtual device, how the virtual device works and how the scalable IOV capable device works together with another PASID based technology SVA(Shared Virtual Address) in virtualization environment.

---

Xin Zeng
Intel
Software Engineer

Xin Zeng is a software engineer of Network Platform Group at Intel Data Center Group. He is now working on virtualization projects for Intel QuickAssist Technology product. Intel QuickAssist Technology can be used to handle compute-intensive security and compression operations that are typically handled by CPU cores to improve the performance of Networking, Storage, and Security Applications across the Data Center.
Xin Zeng has delievered a couple of talks on KVM forum 2017, LC3 conference 2018 and DPDK summit 2017.

Yi Liu
Intel
Software Engineer

Yi is a software engineer from Intel SSP, focusing on I/O virtualization technology. He works on Shared Virtual Memory, Scalable IOV and vIOMMU stuffs in recent years. He has been invited to give presentation at LPC 2017, LinuxCon Beijing 2018 and KVM Forum 2018. Before joining Intel, he has been working on firmware at HP for 3.5 years.

Note: There's no video recording available for this talk due to technical issues.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G6D-jaCs6sc


