Title: [2019] KVM Address Space Isolation by Alexandre Chartre & Liran Alon
Publication date: 2019-11-09
Playlist: KVM Forum 2019
Description: 
	Recent vulnerabilities like L1 Terminal Fault (L1TF) and Microarchitectural Data Sampling (MDS) have shown that the cpu hyper-threading architecture is prone to leaking data with speculative execution attacks.

With KVM, a guest VM can use speculative execution attacks to leak data from the sibling hyper-thread, thus potentially accessing data from the host kernel, from the hypervisor or from another VM.

Kernel Address Space Isolation is a project aims to use address spaces to isolate some parts of the kernel to prevent leaking sensitive data. If KVM can be run in an address space containing no sensitive data, and separated from the full kernel address space, then KVM would be immune from leaking secrets.

A first proposal to implement KVM Address Space Isolation and early discussions are available here: https://lkml.org/lkml/2019/5/13/515

---

Liran Alon
Oracle
Virtualization Architect

Liran Alon is the Virtualization Architect of OCI Israel (Oracle Cloud Infrastructure).

He is involved and lead projects in multiple areas of the company's public cloud offering such as Compute, Networking and Virtualization.
In addition, Liran is a very active KVM contributor (mostly, but not limited to, nVMX).

He has been involved in the past few years in advancing state-of-the-art of KVM nested-virtualization and the adjustment of QEMU/SeaBIOS/OVMF to support VMs from other hypervisors. In addition he worked on, and lead, the development of Oracle Ravello's propriety binary-translation hypervisor, which is optimized to run as a nested-hypervisor (on top of the public cloud) and able to expose AMD SVM with NPT (on CPU with no HW virt-extensions), and many more virtualization challenges.

Previous to his work at Oracle, Liran has worked for over 6 years as Security Researcher & Developer for Israel PMO & IDF. There he has gained vast experience on OS Internals (Windows & Linux), kernel development, x86 architecture,
reverse-engineering, vulnerabilities, exploits, exploit mitigations and security-products internals.

Liran has a B.Sc. in Computer Science From Tel-Aviv University. In addition, he regularly lectures on various OS Internals courses.

Alexandre Chartre
Oracle

Senior Principal Engineer - Oracle Linux and VIrtualization
Alexandre Chartre is a Senior Principal Engineer in the Linux and Virtualization engineering team at Oracle. Lately, he has been focusing on security issues on Linux, in particular on Spectre and Meltdown issues (and all variants and derivatives) and their impact on virtualization and KVM in particular. Alexandre has more than 20 years experience in kernel development and virtualization, more recently with Linux and KVM on x86 systems, and previously with Solaris and Logical Domains (LDoms) on SPARC systems.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qh07k5tI5G0


