Title: [2019] virtio-vsock in QEMU, Firecracker and Linux: Status, Performance and Challenges
Publication date: 2019-11-09
Playlist: KVM Forum 2019
Description: 
	The virtio-vsock device provides a zero-configuration communication
channel between guest agents and hypervisor services independent of the
guest network configuration. QEMU and the Linux kernel have virtio-vsock
vhost support. Firecracker is a new open source Virtual Machine Monitor
(VMM) that makes use of KVM and includes support for virtio-vsock.

Andra will give an intro on the state of the art of virtio-vsock and its
use cases. She will then present multiple proposed options for
communication channels between a virtual machine and the host or between
virtual machines using Firecracker. These options include the vhost
backend as well as UNIX domain sockets. She will share performance
metrics with regard to the discussed alternatives.

Stefano will describe the latest performance improvements within the
Linux kernel and QEMU. He will also give an overview of tools that
recently added vsock support (e.g. wireshark, tcpdump, iproute2-ss,
ncat). Finally, he will present the next challenges that will be faced
to improve virtio-vsock, such as support for nested VMs and network
namespaces.

---

Stefano Garzarella
Red Hat
Software Engineer

Stefano is a Software Engineer at Red Hat. He is working on virtualization and networking topics in QEMU and Linux kernel. Current projects cover virtio-vsock, QEMU network storage, and lightweight VMs.

Stefano has presented at EuroBSDCon 2014 and AsiaBSDCon 2015.

Andra Paraschiv
Amazon Web Services
Software Development Engineer

Andra is a Software Development Engineer at Amazon Development Center, Romania, Bucharest, part of Amazon Web Services (AWS). She has been working on the virtualization stack of EC2, both on Xen and Nitro hypervisors. Before AWS, she was a Software Engineer at Intel, focusing on research. She worked on operating systems, virtualization, network technologies and the Linux kernel.

Note: We apologize for lower video quality due to technical problems.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFqz-VZPhFE


