Title: [2019] The Hype Around the RISC-V Hypervisor by Alistair Francis and Anup Patel
Publication date: 2019-11-07
Playlist: KVM Forum 2019
Description: 
	RISC-V (pronounced "risk-five") is an Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) that's available under open, free and non-restrictive licences. It is a clean and modular ISA where new features are added as optional extensions. The RISC-V hypervisor extension provides virtualisation capabilities to a RISC-V CPU and it is designed considering both Type-1 and Type-2 hypervisors. In this talk Alistair and Anup will explain the RISC-V Hypervisor extension, discuss how it was implemented in QEMU and talk about the RISC-V implementation of KVM.

Alistair will talk about the current state of the RISC-V Hypervisor Extensions in QEMU. This will include details about the implementation and design choices that were made. He will discuss what we currently have upstream and how this compares to the latest and proposed future specification versions. This will include all known limitations and proposed future work in the QEMU implementation. He will also talk about current out of tree work that is not yet ready to be submitted upstream and discuss how this can be upstreamed.

Anup will then explain KVM RISC-V internals and the road ahead for KVM RISC-V. Anup will also show a demo of KVM RISC-V using using KVMTOOL.

---

Alistair Francis
Western Digital
Principal System Engineer

As an engineer working in Western Digital's R&D department I am focused on QEMU and RISC-V enablement. I have previous industry experience working in embedded devices, focused on business facing SoC designs and software stacks. As a QEMU maintainer I am interested in improving QEMU's support for RISC-V. I have recently been working on RISC-V Hypervisors. I have spoken at other conferences on a variety of open source projects, including QEMU and OpenEmbedded.

Anup Patel
Western Digital
Technologist

I am an open-source enthusiast with primary interest in hypervisors and Linux kernel. I work for Western Digital System Software Research group where we do lot of open-source contributions to help RISC-V ecosystem.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2MUka4lKGFU


