Title: [2019] Contributor Q&A Panel
Publication date: 2019-11-07
Playlist: KVM Forum 2019
Description: 
	A technical (and end-user oriented) Q&A panel discussion on a variety of topics related to KVM, QEMU and more. The discussion will be for about an hour. Topics will be chosen on the spot from a prepared list, and from the live Etherpad, where an audience (live or remote) can add questions before or during the discussion.

Etherpad: https://etherpad.net/p/KVMForum2019Panel

Moderated by: Kashyap Chamarthy, Red Hat
Panelists
Andrea Arcangeli, Red Hat
David Woodhouse, Amazon
Karen Noel , Red Hat
Konrad Wilk, Oracle
Peter Shier, Google

---

Kashyap Chamarthy
Red Hat
Senior Software Engineer

Kashyap Chamarthy works as part of Red Hat's Cloud Engineering group. He focuses his efforts on ensuring the smooth integration between the OpenStack project and its underlying Virtualization components (based on KVM, QEMU & related tooling).

He's previously presented or participated in the last six editions of
Linux Foundation's events (mostly European, sometimes North American) such as LinuxCon, Open Source Summit, and KVM Forum. And also at other conferences such as FOSDEM.

Andrea Arcangeli
Red Hat
Distinguished Engineer

Andrea Arcangeli joined Red Hat in 2008 because of his interest in working on the KVM Virtualization Hypervisor, with a special interest in virtual machine memory management. He worked on many parts of the Linux Kernel, especially on the Virtual Memory subsystem. Andrea started working with Linux in his spare time shortly after first connecting to the internet back in 1996 while studying at University. He enjoys spending most of his time solving software problems and promoting the adoption of Linux and Open Source software everywhere.

David Woodhouse
Amazon
Principal Engineer, Kernel & Operating System Team

David is a Principal Engineer in Amazon’s Kernel and Operating System team, working on Linux and Xen to support Amazon EC2.

David started hacking on Linux in 1995 when he was an undergraduate at the University of Cambridge. He has since worked at Red Hat, and in Intel’s Open Source Technology Centre.

David was the primary developer of the Linux MTD subsystem for flash memory, and the JFFS2 flash file system. He also wrote the OpenConnect VPN client amongst other random distractions.

Karen Noel
Red Hat
Director

Karen Noel is Director of Platform Virtualization and Network Engineering at Red Hat. She has been working on Operating System kernels her entire career and on Virtualization technologies since 2005. She was formerly with Digital Equipment Corporation and HP and has been with Red Hat since 2011. Karen holds a BS in Computer Science and an MBA degree.

Konrad Rzeszutek Wilk
Oracle
Software Director

Konrad Wilk is a Software Director at Oracle. His group's mission is to make Linux and Xen Project virtualization better and faster. As part of this work, Konrad has been the maintainer of the Xen Project subsystem in Linux kernel, Xen Project maintainer and had been the Release Manager for the 4.5 release of the Xen Project Hypervisor. Konrad has been active in the Linux and Xen Project communities for more than 7 years and was instrumental in adding Xen Project support to the Linux Kernel.

Peter Shier
Google
Software Engineer

Peter Shier works as a Software Engineer at Google, focusing on KVM-related technologies.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8lmiZeh-xC0


