Title: Keynote: Cloud Native Transformation - The Journey Begins Here! - Ken Owens, Cisco
Publication date: 2016-05-29
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Santa Clara 2016
Description: 
	Keynote: Cloud Native Transformation - The Journey Begins Here! - Ken Owens, CTO of Cloud Infrastructure Services, Cisco

Developers are driving the market for cloud consumption and leading each industry into the new era of software defined disruption. There are no longer questions about elastic and flexible agile development as the way to innovate and reduce time to market for businesses. However, current cloud solutions do not enable application development platforms natively or provide the ability to create applications that are cloud native with elastic services. In addition, businesses are moving to application development architectures leveraging microservices, which are becoming more strategic to their business strategy. When making the decision to build and operate an application in a cloud platform, microservices become central to your application architecture and strategy.  

This presentation will describe the Cloud Foundry contributions that address current devops challenges, the data platform that is required to support the business analytics, and the build, deploy, and run, including application monitoring and advanced user plane network enhancements.

The overall architecture of the combined contributions will be described with a customer use case.

Ken Owens 
CTO
Cisco
Greater St. Louis Area
Ken Owens is Chief Technology Officer, Cloud Infrastructure Services at Cisco. Ken is responsible for creating and communicating technical/scientific vision and strategy for Cloud Infrastructure Services (CIS) business. He brings a compelling view of technology trends in enterprise IT (e.g., infrastructure, computing, SaaS, virtualization, and cloud) and evangelizes the technology roadmap for the business. Before joining Cisco in 2014, Ken spent over 7 years at Savvis as the Chief Scientist, CTO, and VP Security and Virtualization Technologies. Prior assignments include 5 years as a network security architect at A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., and Edward Jones brokerage firms in St. Louis, Mo, and 10 years in the design and architecture of communications systems and components for Erlang Technologies, Tellabs, and Wiltel. Ken holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees in electrical engineering from Missouri University of Science and Technology.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kizoD2mZpVw


