Title: Keynote: Enterprise-Ready Lessons for Building Multi-Cloud Apps - Bill Hilf, HPE
Publication date: 2016-05-29
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Santa Clara 2016
Description: 
	Keynote: Enterprise-Ready Lessons for Building Multi-Cloud Apps - Bill Hilf, SVP & GM, HP Cloud, HPE

Many enterprise customers want to take advantage of the promise of cloud native applications, but need a bridge to their current IT infrastructure.  They want to reap the benefits of 12-factor apps and automation, but need strong tools to get started. In this session, HPE Helion SVP & GM, Bill Hilf, will share proven strategies for the Enterprise, the work HPE is focused on, and will highlight stories from HPE customers who have chosen Cloud Foundry technology as a key first step to evolving towards a multi-cloud approach.

Bill Hilf 
HPE
SVP & GM, HP Cloud
Bill Hilf is Senior Vice President and GM for HPE’s Cloud business. In
this role, he leads the engineering, product management, product 
marketing and delivery of HPE’s cloud portfolio. This portfolio enables 
enterprises to build, manage and consume hybrid cloud services, helping 
them to transform their IT environments through powerful cloud solutions 
from HPE and its partners.

Prior to joining HP, Hilf was the General Manager of Product 
Management for Microsoft Azure, where he led product planning, product 
management and technical PM. At Microsoft, he also served as General 
Manager of Product Management and Marketing for the Technical 
Computing group. This group built solutions for a broad range of 
scientific and engineering challenges, including HPC Server systems, 
parallel languages and runtimes, and mathematical modeling tools.

Hilf also previously led Microsoft’s multi-billion dollar Windows Server 
business, including the launch of Windows Server 2008, and his first role 
at Microsoft was leading the Platform Strategy Group, helping bridge the 
Microsoft and Open Source communities by developing and driving 
Microsoft’s strategy for Open Source interoperability.

Before joining Microsoft, Hilf worked at IBM as a senior architect and 
expert in Linux and Open Source. In the roaring 90s, he built his tech 
chops as a software developer and engineering leader through a variety 
of software start-ups in San Francisco and Los Angeles. Hilf currently 
holds 15 patents in the distributed computing and application server 
domains.

In 2008, he founded the non-profit organization High Five Hope, which 
focuses on helping street-children in the Philippines experience greater 
self-esteem, confidence, leadership, teamwork and most importantly, 
happiness and hope through the power of sports.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r7WMxTdsIo4


