Title: Warner Music Group's Journey from Private to Public Cloud - Adam Chesterton & Renat Khasanshyn
Publication date: 2016-05-29
Playlist: Cloud Foundry Summit Santa Clara 2016
Description: 
	Ever wanted to know what it takes to stop a multi-data center roll out (MPLS-backed, pick-any-hardware, Cloud Foundry + Data Lakes) mid way, and begin an “all in” move to public cloud? 

The vision of composable enterprise at Warner Music Group lives on, with Cloud Foundry being the backbone of application factory churning out cloud-native applications using a swarm of microservices, paving the way for all-digital revenue sources. 
In this session, you will join us in the journey we are taking all the way from managed private cloud running Cloud Foundry and data services, to rethinking the economics of composable enterprise, to running on multiple availability zones at AWS. 

At the end of the journey, attendees will find themselves holding a 5-point lists of patterns and antipatterns, a practical 10-point tip sheet, and a sample “one pager” reference deployment architecture of highly available Cloud Foundry and surrounding data lakes on AWS. 

Adam Chesterton
Adam Chesterton is a Director of Engineering at Warner Music Group, where he is responsible for all things Cloud Foundry. Prior to WMG, Adam was Development Manager with Reuters. Prior to Reuters, Adam was Enterprise Analyst with GE Consumer Products.

Renat Khasanshyn
Renat Khasanshyn is CEO of Altoros and Venture Partner at Runa Capital. Renat's primary focus is bringing “software assembly lines” and "data lakes" into organizations through training, deployment and integration of solutions offered by the Cloud Foundry ecosystem. Renat is an active member of the Cloud Foundry Foundation Advisory Board and a frequent speaker at Cloud Foundry events. In the past, Renat has been selected as a finalist for the Emerging Executive of the Year award by the Massachusetts Technology Leadership Council and once won an IBM Business Mashup Challenge.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htr1CxyZk0c


