Title: DrupalCon Nashville 2018: Social API: D8's Authentication and Posting Suite for Social Networks
Publication date: 2018-04-11
Playlist: DrupalCon Nashville - April 2018
Description: 
	Almost every website interacts with 3rd party systems and majority of these systems are social networks such as Facebook and Twitter. Learn how to authenticate users with every social network and post content in Drupal 8.

All skill levels are encouraged to attend this presentation to see how easy it is to connect social networks into Drupal 8 with simple point/click demos.



Learn about Drupal 8's new suite of modules making up the Social API
Authenticate users with social networks such as Facebook and Twitter with a demo of the Social Auth module
Post content to/from Drupal 8 using a demo of Social Post Twitter and Social Post Facebook
Stop searching drupal.org for various social network related modules and start utilizing a common API embraced by the community saving everyone's time!


Attendees will learn about Social API, suite of related components, and how to implement modules in Drupal 8. As a bonus, learn the history of how this module suite was coded, maintained/supported, and the story behind everything based on Google Code-In (ages 13-17) and Google Summer of Code (university) students.

Did you know that Google funded 2 students (gvso and himanshu-dixit) for Social API with about $11,000 in development during Summer of Code? Did you know the GCI students ages 13-17 have been writing the patches and testing this module?

Learn the story of Social API told by GSoC/GCi admin Slurpee (Matthew Lechleider). We will utilize funding from Google to send both GSoC students who created Social API modules to participate in presentation. It will be truly magical to see the progress of students who only recently learned about Drupal, became a rockstar developers, and ultimately attend a Drupalcon to fully embrace them into our community.

Join us a few hours after presentation in our BoF session in room 102A on 04/10/2018 frin 14:15 to 15:15. Details @ https://events.drupal.org/nashville2018/bofs/social-api-google-summer-code-and-google-code
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cyXs9R5oY7c


