Title: DrupalCon Nashville 2018: How to use your strengths to become a great leader
Publication date: 2018-04-11
Playlist: DrupalCon Nashville - April 2018
Description: 
	Employees are not just human resources anymore, they are the teams of personalities and they need to be treated this way. Thus, to achieve a team’s success not a manager is needed, but a leader. The difference between a manager and a leader is that the manager tends to put the project’s goals above the personal goals of team members. On the other hand, the leader is the one who seeks to build a strong commitment based on the intersection of the project goals and the personal goals and values of his/her team members.

Teams that truly believe in their goal demonstrate better results and see the big picture of how their today’s actions will affect themselves, their company, and the world in the future. Building this kind of attitude within a team takes strong leadership skills.

There are different leadership styles, and knowing yours will help you benefit from your natural strengths while working on areas of improvement. However, a leadership itself is a complex term, and it should be examined from different perspectives in order to apply it to your life and become a true leader to your team.

I believe that there should be at least 2 steps taken in the process of understanding what kind of a leader you are.



First, we will use the PAEI model of Ichak Adizes in order to classify the leadership styles and make a self-assessment. This model teaches to benefit from amplifying strong sides while leveraging less developed skills. We will discuss the successful patterns of behavior that can be applied to each leadership style.
Second, we will talk about the life values that shape your personality. I believe that before leading the team to some results and goals, true leaders must know where they go themselves. And for that purpose, we will use the Golden Circle model designed by Simon Sinek. This approach will reveal why you do what you do, what stands behind your decisions and how to become an influential leader by reflecting your values to your actions.


During this session we will answer the following questions:

how to become an influential leader
what your strengths are in terms of leading a team
how to amplify your strengths while improving weaknesses


For whom this session is:

project managers that want to achieve extraordinary results together with their teams;
CEOs that want to build a strong team that has a balance in leadership styles;
anyone who wants to take a step and become a team leader.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yd2bthD5OU0


