Title: DrupalCon Nashville 2018: Build banging sites with BPM: Bricks, Paragraphs and Modifiers
Publication date: 2018-04-11
Playlist: DrupalCon Nashville - April 2018
Description: 
	Site builders are on a continual search for finding better ways to do things - how can we build more functional, flexible, consistent, beautiful and easy to use sites. This presentation brings together a set of great tools (Bricks, Paragraphs and Modifiers) which makes this possible.

Drupal site builders are familiar with the Paragraphs module, loved by site builders and editors alike and renown for allowing the creation of component based designs. The Paragraphs ecosystem has developed strongly over the years and is now an essential tool in most site builders toolkits.

We have seen the adoption of the Bricks module which works hand in glove with Paragraphs, bringing the complementary power of Layouts and View Modes to components. Paragraphs can now be arranged in a variety of ways to increase the design options available. Bricks appears to be a module on the rise.

Most recently we have seen the emergence of Modifiers plugins which allow editors to easily alter the look and feel of entities such as Paragraphs and Bricks. Modifiers allow for the application of different backgrounds, typography and other effects, bringing content to life.

There three modules come together to form a powerful team: Bricks, Paragraphs and Modifiers (BPM). Combined they allow for components to be arranged and styled, solving the basic problem of how to produce functional, consistent and presentable pages.

This presentation will provide the following:

Overview of component and layout paradigms in Drupal.
Review of the Drupal concepts underlying Bricks, Paragraphs and Modifiers.
A live example of how they can combine together.
Review of the ecosystem and tips to get up and running.
The presentation would be helpful for a wide range of Drupalers: architects, builders, themers and editors as well.

At the end of the presentation attendees should have the knowhow to go out and build a BPM system for themselves. The tools are out there, they just need to be combined.

Murray Woodman, the speaker, has been a long time fan of Paragraphs and now of Bricks. He has worked closely on the Modifiers project and wants to share the knowledge when it comes to BPM.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AClSyOC2KKk


