Title: Beasts, Rhymes and Unit Tests - Bristol JS - October 2018
Publication date: 2018-11-20
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Presented by Tony Edwards.

Speech recognition is all around us. From the smartphones in our pockets to the devices at the heart of our digital homes, we’re never far from speech recognition technology. Not only does it enable new ways of interacting with computers, but it’s also set to reshape Human-Computer Interaction for people requiring assistive technologies.

The humble web browser is no exception. The speechRecognitionAPI enables developers to incorporate advanced speech interactions into today’s web applications. But is it any good? Combining two of his passions, Tony sets out to discover if the speechRecognitionAPI can be used as an aid in transcribing hip-hop lyrics during the writing process.

After an introduction to the broader technology, a mix of audio, video and live performance tells the tale of creating an MVP transcription application to aid in the writing of new songs. As a development project, each iteration of the app is accompanied by a set of unit tests. The final unit test is executed live, resulting in a crescendo you won’t want to miss.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IF1kcgWu_fs


