Title: Best Practices for Building Voice-First Apps - Bristol JS - October 2019
Publication date: 2019-11-13
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Rabeb Othmani - Best Practices for Building Voice-First Apps

Voice-first applications are already flooding the market, paving the path for the voice era. Users are increasingly dispensing with swipes, taps, and tiny keyboards and expecting to interact with applications in a more flexible and contextualized way: voice.

Is it a good time to consider building voice-first apps? It definitely is. So how do you even get started? How to design for voice? How do you reduce development errors? Grow your user base? Avoid mistakes? Build engaging experiences? Join BiBi in this talk to learn about some design and development considerations when building voice experiences.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t2_07USjeys


