Title: ClojureScript in 2018 - Bristol JS - September 2018
Publication date: 2018-10-09
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Presented by Luke Snape. 

Clojure the language hasn't changed all that much in the last 3 years, but the way in which ClojureScript applications are built and deployed has changed massively. In particular, improvements to tooling and a bigger ecosystem now make ClojureScript a practical choice for building modern web applications.

In this talk Luke will aim to give a quick introduction to the Clojure language, as well as a short history of how the ClojureScript compiler and tooling have evolved in recent years. He'll then explore the capabilities of the latest tools and how we're currently using them to build, test and deploy single-page applications in ClojureScript.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZZgeBBsHExU


