Title: Hidden Benefits of Unit Tests - Bristol JS - April 2019
Publication date: 2019-05-08
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Rachel Davies - Hidden Benefits of Unit Tests

Unit tests provide a quick way for us to confirm our code is working as we expect but many developers remain unconvinced whether it's worth investing time writing unit tests especially in front-end projects. Once we have implemented a working solution, there's often pressure to move on to adding more crowd-pleasing features rather than trying to wrap our code with tests. However, the benefit of writing unit tests is not limited to automated checking our code still works. In this talk, I'll share some less obvious benefits for investing time writing unit tests with some examples drawn from a recent project using GraphQL.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QF9dPkYTfxQ


