Title: Mastering Creativity? Senior Creative at Aardman Animations - Bristol JS - August 2019
Publication date: 2019-09-20
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Presented by Gav Strange.

Making the work is the easy part. Finding the time is the difficult bit. In this talk, Aardman Animations Senior Creative Gavin Strange shares his stories and methods behind getting the most out of those pesky 24 hours, conveyed via the medium of bright colours and animated GIFs. Gavin prides himself on being a “realistic idealist” or an “idealistic realist,” striking the balance between uncurbed enthusiasm and pragmatic process. Floaty sentiments aside, his presentation is about finding the energy and making the time to create things that matter. That’s something he believes applies to everyone, from student to CEO!

About the speaker:

By Day, Gavin is a Director and Designer for the UK’s beloved creative studio Aardman Animations. By night he goes under the alias of JamFactory, indulging in all manner of passion projects, from filmmaking to illustration, toy design to photography.

In 2016, after speaking at the prestigious Do Lectures, he wrote the book ‘Do Fly’, a motivational mantra published by The Do Book Co & Chronicle Books. He co-founded the contemporary design store ‘STRANGE’ with his wife Jane and even appears in CBBC’s art-themed TV show ‘Art Ninja’.

Making the work is the easy part, finding the time, however, is the difficult bit. In his talks and his book, Gavin shares his stories and methods behind getting the most out of those 24 pesky hours, conveyed via the medium of bright colours and animated GIFs.

He prides himself on being a ‘realistic idealist’ or ‘idealistic realist’ – striking the balance between uncurbed enthusiasm and pragmatic process. Floaty sentiments aside, his talks are about finding the energy and making the time to create things that matter. That’s something Gav believes applies to everyone - from a GSCE to CEO!

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkwl0ZV3ONY


