Title: Mindfulness for Developers - Bristol JS - August 2018
Publication date: 2018-09-09
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Presented by Arabella Tresilian.

The developer’s brain works hard. Billions of neurons hyperwire to enable the coder to think multidimensionally for hours a day, under complex deadlines, day after day. An understanding of what keeps the brain/mind fresh makes for a more fulfilling and productive career. This interactive session gives participants an overview of neuropsychology for the coding mind, and presents them with a go-to tool for keeping their workplace brain-state healthy, calm and balanced.

About the speaker:

Arabella is a workplace and civil mediator, specialising in conflict prevention and mental health. She is an associate trainer to the charity Mind, leading on corporate workplace wellbeing training for the Bath region, and she's also a certified Mental Health First Aider. Most of her family members seem to be developers now, and she works from the heart of the tech world in Bath, at the Guild Co-Working Hub. Following a diagnosis of autism in her thirties, she set about hacking her mind to establish better mental health for herself, and now shares her learning with others. Find out more at arabellatresilian.com.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wgs8eFsSwxg


