Title: Modelling Dependencies via Generative Properties - Bristol JS - July 2019
Publication date: 2019-08-08
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Presented by William Heslam

"Don’t write tests… generate them!" - John Hughes
Property testing is a powerful and fun way to test your code that builds upon and complements unit testing.

It finds those obscure, fiddly edge-cases for you whilst automatically simplifying complicated scenarios… and all it requires is thinking hard about the kind of inputs and outputs your code might have to deal with.

In this talk I’ll introduce property testing in general and then describe a technique using it to simulate your software’s dependencies (such as network requests or databases) to help make your code more robust in the face of uncertainty.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ShlC4Ag2URI


