Title: PWAs & Offline Development - Bristol JS - May 2019
Publication date: 2019-06-05
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Mike Oram

In this talk, we will briefly explore what a PWA is and how to build one. We will look at the benefits of PWA's and more importantly their limitations.

We then look a bit deeper at the technologies behind PWA's such as Service Workers, in particular we will look at the mechanics behind Service Workers, and how they will affect your back-end builds.

Finally, we will look at offline development, the offline first life-cycle and the tools and technologies needed to start building offline applications. Comparing offline storage mechanisms, and their limitations.

This talk is great for anyone building web-based applications, in any language, or anyone wanting to learn more about PWA's and offline development

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OTQGqzVUCg4


