Title: Starting out with React Native - Bristol JS - May 2019
Publication date: 2019-06-05
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Stephen Kempin

React Native is one the fastest growing frameworks for building native apps. In this lightning talk we will look at starting out with React Native, it’s pros and cons and how it compares to web view based solutions such as Ionic.

We will also look at how React Native compares to React, what Expo is and what basic libraries (such as React Navigation) you will need to start building your first React Native app.

Finally, we will briefly look at creating standalone apps and uploading these to Google Play and Apple iTunes, and the typical experiences involved in both.

This talk is for anyone with an interest in cross platform mobile development in general, especially React and Ionic.

Key examples used in this talk include:

- Lyrics King
https://github.com/SKempin/Lyrics-King-React-Native

https://expo.io/@skempin/lyrics-king

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iRKe2PG8wFM


