Title: Storybook and React Native - Bristol JS - April 2019
Publication date: 2019-05-08
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Wyc Slingsby - Storybook and React Native

Storybook is a popular tool for the development of UI components in many of the leading web frameworks including React, Vue and Angular. It provides a convenient environment for developing components in isolation from the main app, making the testing of hard-to-reach edge cases easier. Storybook also supports React Native, bringing the same advantages to mobile developers. In this talk I'll look at how we have used Storybook in the development of a new React Native app, sharing some of the key things we have learned along the way. We will also look at how the structural testing of React Native UI components can be automated using Storybook and Jest snapshots, providing an additional option for static front-end testing.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1TlNgsIAWSE


