Title: The Year is 2139 - Bristol JS - August 2019
Publication date: 2019-09-10
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Presented by Lucia Velasco.

What will AI look like in 10, 30, 100 years? Let your imagination run amok in this sci-fi short.

About the speaker:

Lucia Velasco is a speaker, software developer, diversity in tech advocate, and aspirant polymath.

Having founded Calima in 2018, Lucia now delivers programming, testing and process consultancy for startups and multinational corporations.

In her spare time she champions tech education. You'll often find Lucia at local bootcamp Mayden Academy delivering guest lectures and helping out at taster sessions. She is a co-organiser of the PHP South West meetup, and frequent speaker at events across the UK on women in tech, autism awareness and better processes.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OUs6DudGFHk


