Title: Trust, the Secret Ingredient in High Performing Teams - Bristol JS - January 2020
Publication date: 2020-02-25
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Trust, the Secret Ingredient in High Performing Teams by Jaycee Cheong

Building a high performing team had always been a hot topic in the software world. Have you ever wondered how you can play a part in it?

Trust is one of the few key ingredients in a high performance team, In fact, the most effective way to build trust with your peers, and managers, comes from you, a member of the team.

This talk will outline the “What, Who, How, and Why”, a practical strategy on cultivating trust in your team. Combining the art and science on building trust, the goal is to inspire everyone to view their team in a new light, and helping each other in achieving more.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S_gOARjfyno


