Title: Vue.JS In Action - Bristol JS - March 2019
Publication date: 2019-04-01
Playlist: Bristol JS
Description: 
	Presented by Simone Cuomo.

The JavaScript ecosystem has been ever-changing for over a decade, meaning front-end developers have had to stay busy to keep track of new technologies. After tirelessly experimenting with different JavaScript frameworks and libraries for over five years, I have now found the one that works for me: Vue.js. In this tutorial, I will share essential resources and explain the basic structure of a Vue app.

This session will cover: * Project Setup * Definition of components * Mixins * Unit test

Resources used: * Vue CLI * Codesandbox * JEST * SCSS * Advanced Javascript

The goal of this session is to give the audience a good understanding of the framework, that will enable them to kick-start their own Vue project.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UXrkwvrnuh8


