Title: DrupalCon Sydney 2013: Keynote: Senator Kate Lundy
Publication date: 2013-03-29
Playlist: DrupalCon Sydney - February 2013
Description: 
	From Open Source to Open Government

When first elected to the Senate in 1996, the Senator had her own separate phone line installed so that she could connect directly to the Internet by modem from her offices and update her own website via FTP, external to the network at Australian Parliament House.

Senator Lundy participated in every Senate Inquiry relating to telecommunications and Information Technology when in opposition. In the Labor Government's first term she spearheaded Gov 2.0 initiatives such as her Public Sphere events to facilitate online public collaboration on policy development.

In 2010 she was presented with an International eDemocracy Award by French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner - for her work changing the world of Internet and politics.

In March 2012 Senator Lundy was appointed as the Minister Assisting for Industry and Innovation, with a specific emphasis on the ICT industry, as well as Minister for Sport and Minister for Multicultural Affairs.

Senator Lundy continues to be a strong advocate for the use of the Internet, digital technology and ICT innovation to strengthen the Australian economy for future growth, to transform public engagement in government processes and to enhance social inclusion within our communities.

Senator Lundy is also patron for CASE: Computer Assistance Support Education, a non-profit group that provides smart, open technology support to community organisations.

Technology plays a critical role in the Australian economy. It is transforming public engagement in government processes and enhances social inclusion within communities across the continent. Senator Lundy will discuss the lessons governments are learning from open source software, technologies, and communities, exploring how diverse communities can collaborate effectively online. She will also talk about Open Government in Australia and the extraordinary progress made in recent years.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ZxNTQzd7Qk


