Title: DrupalCon Sydney 2013: Collaborating with the Public Sector
Publication date: 2013-03-29
Playlist: DrupalCon Sydney - February 2013
Description: 
	This presentation will drive at the heart of the 'what and how' a Drupal business can do to engage with and create positive outcomes for public sector organisations.

If you are interested in working more effectively with the gorvernment market, this talk will give you the information you need to know to create solutions that resonate with your clients. We'll identify the key people who need to be involved and how to get to them.

As organisations grow in the public sector, they are subject to more stringent requirements for content management and record keeping, such as the Archives Act 1983 (Australia) and the Public Records Act 2005 (New Zealand). We'll briefly look at what that means for Drupal.

Modern EDRM Systems provide web service APIs that give unprecedented capabilities and opportunities for Drupal-oriented organisations to integrate best practice UI/UX and build fantastic public and internal websites.

We'll talk about:

Business strategy - Why work with the public sector? What opportunities exist for your company to get into public sector work?
What is the sales cycle in the public sector? Did you know that 12 to 18 months is considered normal?
Successfully responding to 'Request for Proposal' style tenders. Like CVs, what will get your RFP response in the 'Keep' pile and out of the 'Unsuccessful' pile.
The language of public sector procurement.
Where Drupal fits into the enterprise architecture and how to communicate that to Government CIOs.
Today, public sector workers are educated, computer-literate people who have to do more with less as part of government pressures. They expect responsive interfaces, contextual work environments and solutions that solve business problems.

Drupal is incredibly well placed to be the engine bringing the Web to life for organisations that ultimately exist to serve us - their citizens.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TVKl4P12auI


