Title: DrupalCon Sydney 2013: Climbing the Drupal Ladder
Publication date: 2013-03-29
Playlist: DrupalCon Sydney - February 2013
Description: 
	As Drupal's popularity sky-rockets, so does the volume of issues and sense of urgency for problems to get solved fast. To keep up, we need to get more people contributing to core. There are a lot of people who would like to contribute to Drupal core, but they're not sure how, they don't feel qualified, and the time commitment feels prohibitive. Meanwhile, as Drupal's code base becomes more complex, the learning curve for contributing to Drupal core gets steeper. To get more people contributing to core, we need to make it easier to work on core. This is what the Drupal Ladder project is about.

The Drupal Ladder project is working to get 1% of active users on Drupal.org to contribute to core by 2014.

The Drupal Ladder vision of how to make this happen is this:

Make a list of all the different ways people contribute to Drupal core.
Organize the list like a ladder. The first few steps are easy for anyone, minimal knowledge of Drupal required. As you ascend the ladder, taking any consecutive step up the ladder is within reach, as long as you've taken the first steps.
For each rung in the ladder, we're providing clear instructions and goals that make it easy to get up and running with something new in 15-30 minutes. (This way, people can contribute in one-off 1- or 2-hour sittings and get real, valuable work done.)
Create more detailed ladders for various aspects of contributing, and/or components of Drupal (i.e. the user system, or contributing documentation in code).
Drupal groups meet regularly all around the world. If each group dedicates a few hours to making contributions and helping members work their way up the ladder, together we can close a ton of issues and bring more people into work on Drupal core.
Since its community debut at Drupalcon Denver (March 2012), The response has been tremendous and we have many local community groups helping out, as well as new ladders being created and tested.

This session will include a status report on the goals set in Denver and Munich, an overview of new materials and activities available to share with user groups, and case studies from the field. This session will also propose next steps for helping the community get 1% of active users to contribute by 2014.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9fsi-K0yTA


