Title: DrupalCon Sydney 2013: Configuration Management in Drupal 7
Publication date: 2013-03-29
Playlist: DrupalCon Sydney - February 2013
Description: 
	Configuration management is a big initiative for Drupal 8 but what can you do now in Drupal 7?

This talk is a follow up and built upon similar talk with the same title in DrupalCon Munich

Agenda
What is Configuration Management
We will talk about different way to manage configuration
We will have a little refreshment about contrib solutions including Features, and Configuration modules.
We will highlight the difference between Features module and configuration module. We will also talk little bit about the state of configuration module, what has been added or has been changed to since DrupalCon Munich.
We will have little demo of configuration module if time permits.
Intended Audience

This session content is mostly for Intermediate user that has been building various Drupal sites. But a beginner that has built a site also can get benefits from this session.

Refreshment

Features Module

Features provides a UI and API for taking different site building components from modules with exportables and bundling them together in a single feature module. A feature module is like any other Drupal module except that it declares its components (e.g. views, contexts, CCK fields, etc.) in its .info file so that it can be checked, updated, or reverted programmatically.

More at the Features project page.

Configuration Module

The configuration management module enables the ability to keep track of specific configurations on a Drupal site, provides the ability to move these configurations between different environments (local, dev, qa, prod), and also move configurations between completely different sites on a granular level (migrate configurations).

This module takes some concepts from the Drupal 8 core Configuration Management Initiative(CMI), including the concept of the "activestore" and "configstore" architecture, and applies them to D7. This allows us to use some of the benefits from CMI in D7 now.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MUj5ki7x0lE


