Title: Open Source Silicon : Where software ends and hardware begins - Olof Kindgren
Publication date: 2017-05-05
Playlist: foss-north 2017
Description: 
	Free and Open Source Software has since long proven to be a massive success in many areas, and the same can be said about Open source hardware over the last decade. But what about the chips themselves that are placed on circuit boards by hardware developers and programmed by software developers?

This is where the Free and Open Source Silicon (FOSSi) movement comes in. Driven by the same forces as open source software - cost, curiousity, availability, security, flexibility - the FOSSi movement is about using Open Source code and tools to build the chips themselves that are at the heart of most electronic devices. This is hardly a new movement, and the roots can be traced back 20 years from the early days of OpenRISC and OpenCores, but in the last few years there has been an explosion of new projects and technologies coming from industry, academia and hobbyists. The boundaries between hardware and software are dissolving and and we're beginning to see whole new fields open up. This also means that there is an increasing number of software engineers entering the digital design domain, bringing best practices such as CI, modern languages and package dependency handling from the software world.

Despite all the recent advances, the world of Open Source Silicon is still unknown even to many people working close to hardware. This presentation will give an overview of the events leading up to the current state of FOSSi. We will look at what lies ahead, both in regards of challenges and opportunitiies, and by taking a quick dive into some of the most promising projects such as RISC-V, LibreCores, FuseSoC and yosys to see how and why they can be used instead of proprietary technologies.

--

Olof Kindgren is a co-founder and director of the FOSSi Foundation. Starting out with open source software in the 90's, he later became an active contributor to many different FOSSi projects such as OpenRISC and FuseSoC, and writes about this on his blog.

http://foss-north.se/talks.html#kindgren
Captions: 
	
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3rDWJB0jv-Q


