Title: Towards Practical Self-Healing Distributed Databases
Publication date: 2020-10-21
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Cassandra
Description: 
	Towards Practical Self-Healing Distributed Databases
Dinesh Joshi, Joey Lynch

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

As distributed databases expand in popularity, there is ever-growing research into new database architectures that are designed from the start with built-in self-tuning and self- healing features. In real world deployments, however, migration to these entirely new systems is impractical and the challenge is to keep massive fleets of existing databases available under constant software and hardware change. Apache Cassandra is one such existing database that helped to popularize "scale-out" distributed databases and it runs some of the largest existing deployments of any open-source distributed database. In this talk, we demonstrate the techniques needed to transform the typical, highly manual, Apache Cassandra deployment into a self-healing system. We start by composing specialized agents together to surface the needed signals for a self-healing deployment and to execute local actions. Then we show how to combine the signals from the agents into the cluster level control- planes required to safely iterate and evolve existing deployments without compromising database availability. Finally, we show how to create simulated models of the database's behavior, allowing rapid iteration with minimal risk. With these systems in place, it is possible to create a truly self-healing database system within existing large-scale Apache Cassandra deployments.

Dinesh Joshi:
Dinesh A. Joshi has been a professional Software Engineer for over a decade building highly scalable realtime Web Services and Distributed Streaming Data Processing Architectures serving over 1 billion devices. Dinesh is an active contributor to the Apache Cassandra codebase. He has a Masters degree in Computer Science (Distributed Systems & Databases) from Georgia Tech, Atlanta, USA.
Joey Lynch:
Joey helps keep the wheels on the bus for Netflix’s data infrastructure.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9wAM7L49agM


