Title: Frank Quinn & Nigel Phelan | FINOS | OSSF 2020: Leveling the Market Data Playing Field with OpenMAMA
Publication date: 2020-12-22
Playlist: FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum 2020
Description: 
	Frank Quinn & Nigel Phelan | FINOS | OSSF 2020: Leveling the Market Data Playing Field with OpenMAMA  | FINOS OSSF 2020

Frank Quinn, Founder Cascadium Ltd and OpenMAMA Maintainer, Cascadium Ltd.
Nigel Phelan, Chief Architect, Market Data Services, JP Morgan Chase

Leveling the Market Data Playing Field with OpenMAMA - OSSF 2020

Market data is a tricky business to deal with. It is the life blood of so many financial organizations, yet it tends to be under constant pressures which end up shaping its structure organically over time. What can start off as a fairly straightforward “service” can turn into a “platform” very quickly. Platforms need to be low latency, but high bandwidth; flexible but deterministic; progressive but backwards compatible; easy to access but easy to audit. The inevitable truth is that multiple technologies, software stacks, partners and vendors will need to play nicely with each other. If not now, then in the (not too distant) future.

This is where OpenMAMA comes in to help provide a single way to access each of these services. Application software is written once, then can access a variety of market data vendors with no code changes. Not even a recompile.

This talk will introduce OpenMAMA, how it is put together and how it helps reduce cost, complexity and vendor lock-in where it is used. It will also assert that OpenMAMA as an excellent conduit through which market data providers can sell their services on a level playing field without customers needing to worry about costly migrations - either now or in the future.

Frank Quinn's BIO

Frank has been working with Market Data and other financial technologies for over 15 years. He has held various roles across Wombat, NYSE, and Vela including Regional Support Manager, Product Manager, Principle Software Engineer and Research and Development Manager. His development experience ranges from low level embedded systems to complex microservice based platforms and inevitable devops. He has been a frequent contributor to Open Source projects of all kinds including tooling to help X11 forwarding for WSL2 on Windows. Frank is currently the biggest contributor to OpenMAMA and has been working closely with the project since its conception as well as developing the first OpenMAMA ZeroMQ bridge. He currently works with clients through Cascadium to help develop tailored solutions which allow proprietary technologies to integrate freely with Open Source technologies.

Nigel Phelan's BIO

Nigel has been working in the financial services industry for over 20 years and in market data for more than 15. He currently works in the central market data team at JP Morgan Chase and is responsible for market data product strategy.  An experienced infrastructure engineer, Nigel has worked with a broad range of middleware messaging and information security technologies during his career led multiple new product evaluations and worked in several roles including regional head of engineering, global service delivery manager, and product line owner.  Nigel is a chartered engineer and was awarded a Ph.D. by the University of Bath for research in the field of computer-aided engineering. 

-=-=-=-=-

This video is from the FINOS / Linux Foundation Open Source Strategy Forum (OSSF) Virtual 2020. 

►►For free access to all 2020 videos from the conference - please register HERE: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-strategy-forum/register/
 
►► More information HERE: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-strategy-forum/
►► 2020 Schedule HERE: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-strategy-forum/program/schedule/

Learn more about FINOS and how we deliver the power of open source to financial services:
►► FINOS: https://www.finos.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=baBNZOR3rCs


