Title: Stephen Goldbaum & Adam Hurwitz | FINOS | OSSF 2020: Morphir
Publication date: 2020-12-22
Playlist: FINOS Open Source Strategy Forum 2020
Description: 
	Stephen Goldbaum & Adam Hurwitz | FINOS | OSSF 2020: Morphir: Highly Automated Application Development Turning Business Concepts into Transparent and Reliable Cloud Services  | FINOS OSSF 2020

Stephen Goldbaum, Executive Director, Morgan Stanley
Adam Hurwitz, Azure App Dev Specialist, Microsoft

Morphir: Highly Automated Application Development Turning Business Concepts into Transparent and Reliable Cloud Services - OSSF 2020

App development requires substantial effort on code that's not core to the app's value. Some estimates indicate that developers spend the majority of their time on non-value tasks like serialization, messaging, technical debt, and compliance with regulations. And with studies estimating 10 bugs per 1,000 lines of code, all of that tangential code adds considerable risk. In this talk we introduce Morphir for building reliable applications in today’s multi-paradigm world. Morphir is the project open-sourced by Morgan Stanley and recently contributed into FINOS. It recognizes the business logic as the most valuable asset across in an ever-changing tech landscape. Morphir focuses on business logic and automates the rest. We'll explore using Morphir with Microsoft’s Dapr to quickly turn business concepts into transparent and reliable cloud services. Morphir generates all of the necessary code while Dapr provides a robust cloud runtime. The result is one-touch deployment from pure business logic to running micro-services. We conclude by highlighting ongoing work with Microsoft Research to further automate the development process with even more reliability and transparency.

Stephen Goldbaum's BIO

Stephen Goldbaum is co-creator of Morphir and an Executive Director at Morgan Stanley, where he has performed a variety of technical leadership roles. Stephen’s career has spanned a number of industries. Prior roles include: CTO at a privacy start-up, owner of a software consulting firm, Northeast head of Application Consulting at Netscape, and engineer roles at Sun Microsystems and IBM. Stephen has presented extensively on Morphir, functional domain modeling, and software development, including the keynote address at the Chinese American Academic Professional Society Internet Expo. He has M.S. in Computer Science from NYU and a B.F.A. in Music Performance.

Adam Hurwitz's BIO

Adam Hurwitz is an Azure App Dev Specialist at Microsoft in the Financial Services organization. He is a technologist with broad experience creating software products and services in various industries. His previous roles include: CTO at a mobile healthcare start-up, Program Manager creating cloud-based services in the SQL organization of Microsoft, CIO of Business Intelligence Associates, Inc. (BIA) where he built their industry leading e-discovery software and managed data analytics projects involving large corporate databases, and ecommerce programmer at Gateway computers. He has spoken at a handful of events, including the first O’Reilly Strata Big Data conference, published a few things including “The e-Discovery Maturity Model”, and is sole inventor of a patent in machine learning involving record linking. He is a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) and has a BA from Vassar College in Physics and Philosophy.

-=-=-=-=-

This video is from the FINOS / Linux Foundation Open Source Strategy Forum (OSSF) Virtual 2020. 

►►For free access to all 2020 videos from the conference - please register HERE: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-strategy-forum/register/
 
►► More information HERE: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-strategy-forum/
►► 2020 Schedule HERE: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-strategy-forum/program/schedule/

Learn more about FINOS and how we deliver the power of open source to financial services:
►► FINOS: https://www.finos.org/
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DCxIYpShau0


