Title: Efficient Spark Scheduling on K8s with Apache YuniKorn
Publication date: 2020-10-21
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Big Data (Track 2)
Description: 
	Efficient Spark Scheduling on K8s with Apache YuniKorn
Weiwei Yang, Gao Li

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Apache Yunicorn (Incubating) is a new open-source project, which is a standalone resource scheduler of container orchestration platforms. Currently, it provides a fully functional resource scheduler alternative for K8s that manages and schedules Big Data workloads. We embrace Apache Spark for data engineering and machine learning, and by running Spark on K8s, we are able to exploit compute power promisingly under such highly elastic, scalable, and multi-paradigm architecture. We made a lot of effort on enhancing the core resource scheduling, in order to bring high performance, efficient-sharing, and multi-tenancy oriented capabilities to Spark jobs. In this talk, we will focus on revealing the architecture of the cloud-native infrastructure; How we leverage YuniKorn scheduler to redefine the resource scheduling on Cloud. We will introduce how YuniKorn manages quotas, resource sharing, and auto-scaling, and ultimately how to schedule large scale Spark jobs efficiently on Kubernetes in the cloud.

Weiwei Yang:
Weiwei Yang is a Staff Software Engineer from Cloudera, an Apache Hadoop committer and PMC member. He is focused on technology around large scale, hybrid computation systems. Before Cloudera, he worked in Alibaba’s realtime computation infrastructure team that serves large scale big data workloads. Currently, Weiwei is leading the efforts for resource scheduling and management on K8s. Weiwei holds a master’s degree from Peking University.
Gao Li:
Li Gao is an engineering lead and infrastructure software engineer from Databricks, a leading open source and cloud vendor focusing on unified analytics cloud. Li’s focuses are mainly on large scale distributed infrastructure across public cloud vendors and bringing kubernetes to the AI and big data compute workloads. Prior to Databricks, Li has led major data infrastructure and data platform efforts in companies such as Lyft, Fitbit, Salesforce, etc.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xEKB56Sg0CQ


