Title: Extracting Patient Narrative from Clinical Notes: Implement Apache Ctakes @ Scale Using Apache Spark
Publication date: 2020-10-21
Playlist: ApacheCon @Home 2020: Big Data (Track 2)
Description: 
	Extracting Patient Narrative from Clinical Notes : Implementing Apache Ctakes at scale using Apache Spark
Debdipto Misra

A presentation from ApacheCon @Home 2020
https://apachecon.com/acah2020/

Patient notes not only document patient history and clinical conditions but are rich in contextual data and are usually more reliable sources of medical information compared to discrete values in the Electronic Health Record (EHR). For a medium-sized integrated Health System like Geisinger this amounts to approximately fifty thousand notes each day. For information extraction on retrospective data, the volume can run into millions of notes depending on the selection criteria. This talk describes the journey taken by the Data Science Team at Geisinger to implement a distributed pipeline which uses Apache Ctakes as the Natural Language Processing (NLP) Engine to annotate notes across the entire spectrum of patient care. From re-writing certain components in the Ctakes engine to architecting data store and pipeline optimization for a better throughput, this talk delves into various technical difficulties faced while aspiring to truly do NLP at scale on clinical notes. Towards the end, the talk also demonstrates few usecases and how using Ctakes has helped clinicians and stakeholders to extract patient narratives from patient notes using Apache Solr and Banana.

Debdipto Misra is a Data Scientist with Geisinger Health. Previously, he worked with AOL Inc. as a Platform Engineer in Audience Analytics and with EMC Corp. as a Systems Engineer. He has worked in the Data Mining and Analytics space for over half a decade. He won a fellowship and presented the “Evolution of Prosthetics using Pattern Recognition on Ultrasound Signals” at the 2014 IEEE Big Data Conference in Washington, DC. He has also published at multiple journals and presented at healthcare conferences like HIMSS. Currently,his main focus is on building capacity planning tools for healthcare organizations for bed-supply demand using various deep learning approaches and integrating it with patient notes.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=44x8H8l_3P8


