Title: Lessons Learned from the New Build Farm for Java - Developer South Coast - October 2018
Publication date: 2018-11-03
Playlist: Developer South Coast
Description: 
	Presented by Adam Farley.

The AdoptOpenJDK Build Farm is a new community project producing high-quality OpenJDK binaries for all versions, platforms, and variants. Want Java 10 with OpenJ9 on AIX or maybe Java 8 with HotSpot on macOS? AdoptOpenJDK can help! This session covers how 200+ people (from companies such as IBM, Oracle, and Red Hat), cloud providers, and the wider Java community (e.g., the LJC) collaborated to create a full build farm in under a year for the common good. Also learn how a modern CI build+test pipeline works:
• Building hosts with Ansible
• Build coordination with Jenkins
• Advanced shell scripts for building Java on any platform
• Swaths of testing
• Certification
•Deploying binaries via AdoptOpenJDK.net and the API gateway

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3s2l_0rph-I


