Title: Progressive Web Applications: Blending Industries - Developer South Coast - November 2018
Publication date: 2018-11-28
Playlist: Developer South Coast
Description: 
	Presented by Jack Pritchard.

With the rise in the use of mobile devices, there has been a clear divide between native mobile applications and online websites. In this presentation, Jack will demonstrate how both industries can be implemented in an all-in-one solution. What benefits there are to blending the industries and how you can get started today.

About the speaker:

Jack Pritchard is a passionate website designer, developer and freelancer that seeks to improve how businesses present themselves in the form of branding development and design. A recent graduate with BSc in Website Design and Development, with an FMP, centred on Progressive Web Applications, he is now continuing his studies at Solent in MA Creative Enterprise.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x3DHbpg9kkk


