Title: Tensorflow, Tensorflow, What Is It That You See? - Developer South Coast - September 2018
Publication date: 2018-10-11
Playlist: Developer South Coast
Description: 
	Presented by Ashic Mahtab.

Machines are doing things today that were unthinkable even a few years ago. From computer vision, to understanding human conversation, to translating text, or even generating art; they're encroaching on domains previously thought to be strictly human realms. The technology behind this is actually fairly old; neural networks have been around for decades. However, modern hardware capabilities have made them technology feasible to such a degree that they can now drive cars.

Tensorflow is Google's open source framework for deep learning. It makes it relatively straightforward to apply these techniques. In this session, we'll cover the basics of image recognition, and use Jupyter Notebooks, and Tensorflow to apply it.... with a dash of GPU processing to boot.

Key takeaways

You'll learn how machines can be endowed cognition.
You'll also see the basics of using Tensorflow.

_

About Pusher Sessions:

We're bringing the meetup to you. With Sessions, you can watch recordings of top-notch talks from developer meetups -- wherever and whenever you want.

Meetups are a great way to learn from our peers and to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. As developers ourselves, we at Pusher wanted to bring this great content to more people... So we built Sessions. On Sessions, you can watch talks that interest you and subscribe to be notified when new content gets added.

If you run a meetup and want to get involved, kindly get in touch.

_

About Pusher:

Pusher is a hosted service with APIs, developer tools and open source libraries that greatly simplify integrating real-time functionality into web and mobile applications. 

Pusher will automatically scale when required, removing all the pain of setting up and maintaining a secure, real-time infrastructure. 

Pusher is already trusted to do so by thousands of developers and companies like GitHub, MailChimp, the Financial Times, Buffer and many more. 

Getting started takes just a few seconds: simply go to pusher.com and create a free account. Happy hacking!
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=akA3OG9ths4


