Title: i'm (a bit) sick of maintaining piuparts.debian.org (mostly) alone, please help
Publication date: 2019-08-04
Playlist: DebConf 19
Description: 
	by Holger Levsen

At: DebConf19
https://debconf19.debconf.org/talks/103-im-a-bit-sick-of-maintaining-piupartsdebianorg-mostly-alone-please-help/

Since more than ten years I have been maintaining (what has become) piuparts.debian.org mostly by myself, with some notable help by DSA hosting stuff and Andreas Beckmann providing patches and filing (lots of very valuable RC) bugs. There also have been many people who have submitted bugs and patches, for which I'm very thankful too.

But, the everyday maintenance of the piuparts.debian.org service is on my shoulders, I'm deploying changes and I'm deciding what code to merge and deploy. This works nicely but has become boring and tedious too.

Recently I have asked for i386 piuparts-slaves to be provided by DSA. DSA replied (on irc, there's no reply on https://rt.debian.org/Ticket/Display.html?id=6787 ) that they would prefer if those systems were not maintained by DSA but by the piuparts.d.o maintainers which is largely/only me. (And don't get me wrong, I ♥ DSA, this is just an example where I feel I cannot commit to do more permanent maintenance work on p.d.o...)

I'd like piuparts.d.o to be extended to other architectures and whatnot, also to use piuparts for release.d.o even more, but, I also like this to be long term sustainable.

This is like my 3rd or 4th attempt to improve this situation, I'm curious for the DebConf19 edittion ;)

Disclaimer for readers in the future: of course this talk description is exaggerated, born out exhaustion and frustration. It's is a lame attempt to get more people involved. A non-lame attempt would focus more on the fun sides and the joys of being (partly) responsible that Debian lives up to the high quality standards it's known for. Hopefully $you will be proposing this talk for DebConf20 or 21! It's a bit more work than such a lame attempt but it's totally worth it! Carry the piuparts torch into the next decade!

Room: Miniauditório
Scheduled start: 2019-07-21 14:30:00
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dd9t1E1b2VQ


