Title: A Solution to High Latencies Caused by I O - Paolo Valente, Linaro
Publication date: 2018-03-14
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	A Solution to High Latencies Caused by I/O - Paolo Valente, Linaro

 The BFQ I/O scheduler has made its way into the Linux kernel, bringing high responsiveness, low latency for time-sensitive applications, and strong fairness. These improvements are particularly beneficial for embedded systems, given the slower speed and the higher latency of the storage devices of these systems. Yet, some year may pass before major OSes for embedded systems, notably Android, will run recent-enough versions of the Linux kernel to enjoy these improvements. In this presentation, we show the benefits to come (or already available in systems running recent kernels), and compare them with the current latency and unfairness problems of Linux-based embedded systems. In particular, we show these facts through demos and numbers for real hardware.

About Paolo Valente
Paolo Valente is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the
University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Italy, and a collaborator of
the Linaro engineering organization. Paolo's main activities focus on
scheduling algorithms for storage devices, transmission links and
CPUs. In this respect, Paolo is the author of the last version of the
BFQ I/O scheduler. BFQ entered the Linux kernel from 4.12, providing
unprecedented low-latency and fairness guarantees. As for transmission links, Paolo is one of the authors of the QFQ packet scheduler, which has been in the Linux kernel until 3.7, after that it has been replaced by QFQ+, a faster variant defined and implemented by Paolo himself. Finally, Paolo has also defined and implemented other algorithms, part of which are now in FreeBSD, and has provided new theoretic results on multiprocessor scheduling.

Paolo has given about forty talks, as an invited speaker or to present
his scientific papers.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l7j1AqTZKG4


