Title: Comparing and Contrasting Embedded Linux Build Systems and Distributions - Drew Moseley, Mender.io
Publication date: 2018-03-14
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	Comparing and Contrasting Embedded Linux Build Systems and Distributions - Drew Moseley, Mender.io

We will discuss the various options for creating embedded Linux operating systems. We will provide a basic description of each option, including an overview of the workflow for each choice. The talk will cover the advantages and disadvantages of each of these options and provide viewers with a matrix of design considerations to help them pick the right choice for their design.

We will cover the following options:

Yocto/OpenEmbedded
Buildroot
OpenWRT/LEDE
Slimmed down desktop distributions (e.g. Debian, Raspbian, Ubuntu)

We will also touch upon other tools, such as crosstool-ng and ucLinux, which are peripherally related to building embedded Linux systems. The focus for this section will be to make the viewers aware of these tools as they frequently come up while researching embedded Linux so that you are better informed which tools are available. 

About Drew Moseley
Drew Moseley is currently part of the Mender.io open source project to deploy OTA software updates to embedded Linux devices. He has worked on embedded projects such as RAID storage controllers, Direct and Network attached storage devices and graphical pagers. He has spent the last 7 years working in developing production deployments of embedded Linux systems for various security-sensitive industries. He has spent his career in embedded software and developer tools and has focused on embedded Linux and Yocto for about 10 years. He has given talks at various conferences, including Embedded Systems Conference and All Systems Go Berlin. He is currently a Technical Solutions Engineer at Northern.tech, the company behind Mender.io, helping customers develop safer, more secure connected devices. He worked previously as a Technical Project Manager and Professional Services Engineer for Mentor Graphics. He was raised in Tampa, Florida and attended the University of Florida.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AYtivnqNB1A


