Title: Keynote: Federated Analytics at Scale - Patricia Florissi, VP & Global CTO for Sales, Dell EMC
Publication date: 2018-03-13
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	Keynote: Federated Analytics at Scale - Patricia Florissi, VP & Global CTO for Sales, Dell EMC

About Patricia Florissi
Patricia Florissi is Vice President and Global Chief Technology Officer (CTO) for Sales. As Global CTO for Sales, Patricia helps define mid and long term technology strategy, representing the needs of the broader Dell EMC ecosystem in strategic initiatives. Patricia also acts as the liaison between Dell EMC and our customers and partners, to foster stronger alliances and deliver higher value.
Patricia was previously the Vice President and Global CTO for Sales at EMC prior to the merger between Dell and EMC. She also holds the honorary title of EMC Distinguished Engineer, having been nominated in October 2007.

Patricia is the creator, author, narrator, and graphical influencer of the educational video series Dell EMC Big Ideas (http://bit.ly/DellEMCBigIdeas ), on emerging technologies and trends. The Big Ideas animated videos accelerate and expand technical thought leadership in EMC using innovative learning methodologies in a fun, easy way without talking about products to both internal and external audiences. There are over 20 videos in the series, with some videos localized in 10 languages, and with a combined total count of over half a million views. Patricia also writes articles on the impact of Big Data in accelerating innovation (http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_GITR_Newsletter_June_2014.pdf) to the 2014 World Economic Forum (WEF) Global IT Report Newsletters (http://www.weforum.org/issues/global-information-technology).

Patricia joined EMC in February 2005 via the System Management Arts (SMARTS) acquisition as a Distinguished Technologist in the Ionix business unit, and became the CTO for Ionix in November 2005. As CTO, Patricia was responsible for defining, and communicating the medium- to long-term vision EMC would embrace for delivering solutions to automate the management of Information Infrastructure resources. Patricia was appointed Strategic Initiative Leader for Governance, risk and Compliance (GRC) in August 2008, where she was responsible for leading the research, design, execution, and communication of EMC’s GRC vision and strategy. Patricia was appointed Americas CTO for Sales in January 2010, Americas and Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) CTO in March 2011, and Global CTO for Sales in July 2012.

Before joining EMC, Patricia was the Vice President of Advanced Solutions at Smarts in White Plains, New York. In that capacity, Patricia was responsible for researching emerging technologies and for defining the strategy that Smarts would take in bringing solutions to market to address the challenges introduced by these technological advances. Patricia led the research, design, and first release of over half a dozen products. These have been driving millions of dollars in revenue and still remain in the market today.

Patricia is an EMC Distinguished Engineer, holds a Ph. D. in Computer Science from Columbia University in New York, graduated valedictorian with an MBA at the Stern Business School in New York University, and has a Master's and a Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science from the Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, in Brazil. Patricia holds multiple patents, and has published in periodicals including Computer Networks and IEEE Proceedings.

Patricia is a board member of the Columbia School of Engineering Board of Visitors. Founded in 1955, the Columbia Engineering Board of Visitors is approved by the Columbia University Trustees to “advise and assist the Trustees, the Faculty of Engineering, and the Dean in the development of the school.” Patricia is the chairman of the advisory board for the Data Science Graduate Program at Worcester Polytechnic Institute where she will advise and assist in the school’s new program. Patricia is a board member of the Brazilian/American Chamber of Commerce where she assists in fostering relations with Brazil. Additionally, Patricia is also an active member and participant of the Americas Society/Council of the Americas organization.  Patricia also serves as a mentor for several groups both inside and outside of EMC. She sits as mentor and judge for the Boston based Mass Challenge group, as well as the Boston Club for advancing women’s leaders.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x9haDnOaNzg


