Title: Keynote: Open Source: The New Normal - Imad Sousou
Publication date: 2018-03-15
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	Keynote: Open Source: The New Normal - Imad Sousou, Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Open Source Technology Center, Intel

As we move toward a world where everything is smart and connected, our experiences are becoming increasingly digitized, resulting in a massive flood of data. We are using the power of that data to transform some of the most exciting areas of human activity. Open source continues to be the driving force behind the next great wave of the technology revolution. Imad Sousou, corporate vice president and general manager of the Open Source Technology Center for Intel Corporation, will highlight how Intel has uniquely positioned to power the cloud and drive the increasingly smart, connected world.             

About Imad Sousou
Imad Sousou is vice president in the Software and Services Group at Intel Corporation and general manager of the Intel Open Source Technology Center, a position he’s held since its founding in 2003. Sousou is responsible for leading Intel's efforts in open source software across technologies and market segments: cloud operating system (OS) development, enterprise Linux and related technologies such as power and performance optimization, virtualization (KVM and Xen), FPGAs, and graphics; and core IoT system software such as Robot OS and Dronecode. The Center also focuses on enabling client OS stacks, including Android, Brillo and Chrome for Intel architecture, and developing custom OSes such as Yocto, Clear Linux, and Zephyr, as well as Linux kernel and related technologies designed to improve developer experience and web platform technologies on top of client systems. He sits on the board of directors at the OpenStack Foundation, the Open Connectivity Foundation, and Dronecode; he is on the advisory board for the Core Infrastructure Initiative at The Linux Foundation.
Sousou joined Intel in 1994 as a senior software engineer. Before moving into his current role, he was director of telecom software programs in the Intel Communications Group and director of software engineering in the Home Products Group. He began his career as a software engineer at Central Point Software working on system utilities for the Apple Mac OS. Intel has twice honored Sousou with the Intel Achievement Award; in 2007 for his role in the agreement with Sun Microsystems on Open Solaris, and in 2011 for leadership through open source solutions. Sousou holds a bachelor degree in computer science and mathematics from Portland State University.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EAOouP2YK0g


