Title: Keynote: Connecting the Dots on All Things Great and Small - Philip DesAutels
Publication date: 2018-03-13
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	Keynote: Connecting the Dots on All Things Great and Small - Philip DesAutels, Sr. Director of IoT, The Linux Foundation

The complexity of architectures across all domains of the Internet of Things has grown with the increasing richness of the underlying connected products and services. The basic models of device and cloud have given way to new models that integrate device, edge, network, and cloud. Various open source projects have formed to fill the gaps in the story and as a result, we are starting to see the emergence of a cohesive system of interconnected open source components needed for this to happen. In this session, Kate and Philip will take you through the Linux Foundation's open IoT strategy to help you understand how it all fits together. 

About Philip DesAutels
Building on 25 years of industry experience managing the interface of technology and society, Philip is a rare mix of­ a technologist who understands how to enable business value and an entrepreneur who understands how to leverage the transformative power of technology. Philip comes to The Linux Foundation with wide-ranging experience inside and outside the technology industry. As CTO of LogMeIn’s Internet of Things platform, Philip was responsible for all aspects for strategy, technology, and the launch of the Xively product. Philip spent nearly ten years at Microsoft driving .Net evangelism and adoption. Philip was a co-founder of Ereo, a cloud-based image analysis and search service. He was Chief Scientist at Excite@Home. Philip served on the research team of the W3C, where he worked on security, trust, and privacy issues. Philip actively applies his skills a technologist with numerous socially focused organizations across the globe. Philip lives in Waltham, MA with his wife Michele, whom he met while they both served as Peace Corps volunteers in Uzbekistan. He holds a PhD in Industrial Marketing investigating the interplay of technology and society from LTU in Sweden, BS and MS degrees in Industrial Engineering from RPI, and is a graduate of the North Bennet Street School's preservation carpentry program. He is a consummate tinkerer and an apple farmer. Philip has presented at various Linux Foundation events as well as industry and IoT-specific conferences.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nbT28hMjfo4


