Title: Keynote: Welcome - Tim Bird, ELC Co-Chair & Philip DesAutels, IoT Co-Chair
Publication date: 2018-03-12
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	Keynote: Welcome - Tim Bird, ELC Co-Chair & Philip DesAutels, IoT Co-Chair

About Tim Bird
Tim Bird is a Senior Software Engineer for Sony Corporation, where he helps Sony use Linux and other open source software in their products. Tim is the maintainer of the Fuego test framework, and is involved in various groups in the Linux Foundation. Tim created the Embedded Linux Conference, and has spoken at it numerous times.

Tim's overall goal is to improve Linux for use in consumer electronics products, by improving Linux system testing, directing technical initiatives of the Linux Foundation, and encouraging companies to participate in the open source community. Tim has been working with Linux for over 20 years. 

About Philip DesAutels
Building on 25 years of industry experience managing the interface of technology and society, Philip is a rare mix of­ a technologist who understands how to enable business value and an entrepreneur who understands how to leverage the transformative power of technology. Philip comes to The Linux Foundation with wide-ranging experience inside and outside the technology industry. As CTO of LogMeIn’s Internet of Things platform, Philip was responsible for all aspects for strategy, technology, and the launch of the Xively product. Philip spent nearly ten years at Microsoft driving .Net evangelism and adoption. Philip was a co-founder of Ereo, a cloud-based image analysis and search service. He was Chief Scientist at Excite@Home. Philip served on the research team of the W3C, where he worked on security, trust, and privacy issues. Philip actively applies his skills a technologist with numerous socially focused organizations across the globe. Philip lives in Waltham, MA with his wife Michele, whom he met while they both served as Peace Corps volunteers in Uzbekistan. He holds a PhD in Industrial Marketing investigating the interplay of technology and society from LTU in Sweden, BS and MS degrees in Industrial Engineering from RPI, and is a graduate of the North Bennet Street School's preservation carpentry program. He is a consummate tinkerer and an apple farmer. Philip has presented at various Linux Foundation events as well as industry and IoT-specific conferences.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wirx1SwMlbA


