Title: Maintaining a Real Time Stable Kernel - Steven Rostedt, VMware
Publication date: 2018-03-14
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	Maintaining a Real Time Stable Kernel - Steven Rostedt, VMware

 It wont be much longer before the PREEMPT_RT patch makes it into mainline. But what about supporting it for your devices? Maintaining a RT stable tree is a bit different than maintaining a normal vanilla stable tree. One must understand how the Real Time kernel works, and be able to spot changes that can cause priority inversion, or simply break the kernel. There is now an effort to have multiple people maintain various versions of Linux with the RT patch applied. This talk will present what is required to maintain a stable RT tree, such as tools that you can use. What tricks can be done with git to find properly backport patches that are RT specific. It will also cover the current tests that are performed to make sure the released RT stable kernel is fully functional. 

About Steven Rostedt
Steven Rostedt first started playing inside the Linux kernel in 1998. Since 2001 he's been a professional full time kernel developer. Steven is one of the original developers of the PREEMPT_RT patch; he started working on it in 2004 with the goal of turning Linux into a Real Time designed operating system. Although, the PREEMPT_RT patch still exists out of tree, several of its features have made it into the vanilla kernel. One of these features being Ftrace, the official tracer of Linux. Steven is the main author, developer and maintainer of Ftrace. He has also created ktest.pl, which lives inside the kernel source tree and is a testing framework within the Linux kernel, and is the one responsible for the kernel build option "make localmodconfig". Outside of development, Steven has done numerous presentations around the world. Steven is one the Linux Foundation's Technical Advisory Board (TAB) members, which represents the kernel community to the foundation. Steven currently works for VMware Inc.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pIJ3Zv_uxn0


