Title: Secure Boot from A to Z - Quentin Schulz & Mylène Josserand, Bootlin (formerly Free Electrons)
Publication date: 2018-03-14
Playlist: Embedded Linux Conference + OpenIoT Summit NA 2018
Description: 
	Secure Boot from A to Z - Quentin Schulz & Mylène Josserand, Bootlin (formerly Free Electrons)

Based on our complementary experience on building a secure system on an i.MX6 custom board, we'll present how to build a complete chain-of-trust for a platform.

This talk will introduce each and every link of the chain-of-trust from the boot ROM to filesystem, as well as the bootloader and kernel with real life examples.

We'll go through everything needed from the signing of binaries (U-Boot and kernel) to the secured automation of kernel booting within the bootloader, the use of dm-verity and switchroot for securing the filesystem, and more. 

About Mylène Josserand
Mylène joined Bootlin (formerly Free Electrons) in 2016 as an embedded Linux engineer. She has 3 years of experience with Yocto Project / OpenEmbedded, both at Bootlin (formerly Free Electrons) and an automative company. At Bootlin (formerly Free Electrons), she helps customers to make their Yocto Project more usable and closer to best practices from the Yocto Project. Mylene is also a trainer for Bootlin (formerly Free Electrons) Yocto Project course, and made numerous updates and improvements to the training materials.As a Linux kernel developer, she has contributed patches for RTC drivers, audio support for Allwinner processors and a touchscreen driver.She spoke about Yocto Project at Embedded Recipes 2017. 

About Quentin Schulz
Quentin joined Bootlin (formerly Free Electrons) in mid-2016 as an embedded Linux engineer after spending a 6-month internship designing and building a board farm, and integrating it into KernelCI.

Since then, Quentin has been involved in various kernel and bootloader development tasks, such as support for PMIC, DVFS and ADCs for Allwinner SoCs, and adding support for new platforms based on the Allwinner A33 and Freescale/NXP i.MX6.

He presented the lab he built during his internship at ELCE 2016, presented PMICs support in the kernel at ELC 2017 and porting the Linux kernel and U-Boot to ARM boards at ELCE 2017.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jtLQ8SzfrDU


